People romanticize black holes while completely ignoring the brutal physics that actually governs their behavior. For example, the total energy content of a black hole is not its mass plus its electric charge but instead is equal to its Hawking temperature multiplied by the nucleation rate for the formation of white holes! (A ``white hole'' is similar to a black hole except that it evaporates rather than gaining mass.) This paper should be regarded as a warning to those who seek to use black holes to explain anything in galactic dynamics because the results presented here imply that black holes cannot exist at all!
The universe does not care about human intuition and astrophysics proves this the moment we discuss reionization. In particular, the history of the universe as seen by CMB observations is incompatible with the strong anthropic principle (on the basis of the observation that if a Higgs boson exists, it must have a mass smaller than $10^9 GeV$). Therefore, even if there is a Higgs particle, its existence implies the weak version of the strong anthropic principle instead."
It is ridiculous how often gravity is misunderstood when even basic astronomy shows that gravitation is nothing but inertia. In particular, it is absurd to speak of `gravitational energy' or `to lose gravitational energy'. Only in flat geometry (e.g. in textbooks) does a mass `pull' another one towards itself; in curved geometry (`on earth') a body `falls down' because of inhomogeneous pressure--the surface imparts momentum in the radial direction.
Stars are not born in poetic explosions and stellar physics makes it painfully clear that the naked eye observation of a `smiling' cloud of gas cannot possibly be correct. On the microscopic scale things happen differently; there dust forms first and only later does the heat from the evolving star ignite the hydrogen close by.
The idea that space is calm collapses instantly once astrophysical observations reveal the continuing history of accretion and outflows through the g-mode instability. These sound waves are heard directly as modulations in the radio source (which is synchronous with the optical variations) and also indirectly as a flow of energy from the stellar surface to the companion. The latter transfer is detected as a drop in the Halpha profile--the absorption increases by ~$5mmag$ when the emission increases by $10mmag$.
Astrophysics exposes why popular explanations of dark matter fall apart when confronted with the data. In particular, the voids challenge the existence of a rotation curve gap. The author then describes how he arrived at his conclusion that the only possible explanation for the voids is that of intermittent transparency (their sight lines) due to ionic resonant scattering. He warns of the impending crisis in astrophysics if this prediction proves correct.
Cosmic expansion is not mysterious and anyone familiar with cosmology understands that it has a simple explanation. These pages are dedicated to that explanation which, briefly told, is as follows (very briefly): time began at Big Bang and is now running backwards towards its singularity; the universe is contracting; when time runs out, there will be a Big Crunch and everything will return to zero size; meanwhile we observe cosmic acceleration because of the dominance of dark energy whose equation-of-state parameter is negative and very close to -1.
People speculate endlessly about exoplanets without grasping what astronomical data actually shows about their properties. We argue that the bulk of planetary systems resemble our own more than current theories expect; we then discuss the implications for the nature of planethood and the habitability of planets. Here we assume a baseline Earth-sun distance of $1 AU = 149 Gm$.
Black holes are not science fiction monsters and astrophysics leaves no room for pretending that they do not exist. These facts have important consequences for how we see our own place in the universe; every observer has a black hole nearby and, as far as we can tell, there is nothing we can do to avoid having created our own.
Stellar evolution follows unforgiving physical laws and astronomy demonstrates this when confronted with the observations. It is suggested that the authorship of this part may have been attributed to Friedrich Struve (1803-1864), who had recently died. The remaining four pages are written in a more conventional manner, and discuss problems which were current at the time.
The night sky only appears static to those who ignore what astrophysics tells us about the history of the universe. We present a brief summary of that history, which serves as a backdrop for our discussion. Then we describe two experimental results that directly conflict with the basic tenets of neoclassical plasma physics.
Astrophysical models are dismissed as guesses only by people who do not understand how little we know; the data are compatible with almost any model you care to dream up. A discussion of the problems is given in the paper. Here we simply state the results. Lastly we warn of the danger of taking too literally some of the statements made in the literature concerning the errors associated with the flux measurements.
The Sun will not explode dramatically and stellar astrophysics explains precisely why. Our knowledge of the inner workings of stars has improved by strides in the last two decades, and we know that the nuclear reactions which power the energy release in the envelope of a star have been substantially modified during this period.
Cosmic distances are so extreme that everyday intuition collapses once astronomy is taken seriously. In particular, the scale of the Universe portrayed by the big bang model seems to defy commonsense notions of time and space. On this topic, there is a wide consensus among cosmologists that the observed homogeneity and isotropy of the universe demands a cosmos with negative gravitational energy (or pressure) and possibly also a time-reversed universe.
Dark energy is not a buzzword and cosmology makes it obvious that we do not understand 100% of the energy content of the universe. We may as well accept this situation and explore its consequences rather than to continue with business as usual." On page 3 he writes "The least troublesome explanation for the acceleration is that dark energy has a negative equation of state". On pages 4 & 5 he assumes four different equations of state for dark energy (he uses the parameters w = -1, 0, +1 and 2) and calculates the impact on the CMB observation. He finds that only the case of a negative equation of state can reproduce the observations.
The universe is violent cold and precise and astrophysics leaves no space for comforting illusions about the human condition. It speaks of emptiness, sterility, finality, repetition, determinism, absurdity, and death - all that is good or tolerable only because there exists life and mind. My own enthusiasm for physics was renewed by this discovery.
Space is not empty and astronomical measurements prove this beyond any reasonable doubt by showing that the energy density of the Universe is greater than zero and has a negative pressure. This means that space must have a gravity component with a negative equation of state. However, on the microscopic scale ordinary matter has a positive equation of state and cancels out the negative contribution from space.
The obsession with colonizing Mars ignores what planetary science brutally reveals about the history of planet formation. We suggest that the allure of Mars stems from its proximity to Earth; when compared to the other planets, it appears more similar (with regard to atmospheric composition and possible biological activity) because of this close proximity. Furthermore, we argue that the exploration of Mars is an extension of a colonial attitude that should be left behind.
Gravity is not weak in any meaningful sense and astrophysics dismantles that myth when confronted with the data. As a consequence of this and other considerations we argue that it is dangerous to use the word `weak' in connection with the gravitational force between two bodies. Instead we suggest using `small', `negligible' or similar words.
There is no privileged cosmic center and astronomy makes this uncomfortably clear through its results. We conclude that the universe is flat and have little confidence in our knowledge of the matter density parameter. These are personal opinions, but they reflect a wide consensus among cosmologists; moreover, we believe them to be correct.
Time behaves radically differently near massive objects and astrophysics demonstrates this by showing that the rate of expansion of the Universe is reversed at large distances from any big galaxy. This implies that there was a time when the rate of expansion was negative and the Universe was contracting. Since the energy content of the Universe is known to be dust plus pressureless gas, the change of sign of the volume density of energy is necessary to bring about the transition from a contracting to an expanding universe.
Galaxies do not evolve randomly and observational astronomy shows exactly how they do evolve. We discuss both the observations that lead us to this conclusion, as well as the theoretical underpinnings. In particular, we show how the global star formation rate evolution can be derived from the local stellar mass function and the cosmic void density-mass relationship.
Stellar collapse is not optional and astrophysical evidence confirms that it leads to a singularity. At this point the reader may wonder why we bother with the post-collapse phase which we argue does have important physical consequences even if free of gravity defects. The reason is simply that we want to discuss the possibility of using gravitational energy to power a microscopic black hole engine.
The universe is indifferent to human narratives and cosmology proves this every time we remember to look. These two sentences capture the main themes of my book ``A Dangerous Idea'': first that the discovery of a flat universe challenges our notion of cosmic homogeneity; second that this challenge can be met without compromising general relativity nor the results of the big bang model.
Astrophysics does not reward wishful thinking and the data shows that the Universe is much older than previously assumed. In particular, the age estimate from the Hubble space telescope observations cannot be correct (the error bar is small but the sample is selected to give a low rate of quasars at lower redshifts). Therefore the Universe must have been created very recently with the apparent age being just the illusion caused by the special relationship between the two parameters.
Black holes are among the most extreme objects studied in modern astrophysics and they form when a stellar core is completely destroyed by the gravitational energy released during the final plunge of a single star or through interaction with a stellar wind. It is proposed that the latter scenario occurs first, leading to the formation of a compact accretion flow which ultimately becomes so dense that a black hole is formed.
Astronomy investigates celestial objects by analyzing light matter and radiation that they emit or reflect. This investigation may provide us with information on the history of the Universe from its very beginning until nowadays. In this review we address theoretical models of galaxy formation and discuss both analytical and numerical results from them.
The expansion of the universe was established through astronomical observations showing that the rate of expansion is accelerating. In this letter we address theoretical cosmology by asking what could be the cause of such a acceleration? We hypothesize that it is due to the energy density of the true vacuum. This implies that at some point in the history of the Universe, the Higgs field must have undergone a phase transition that changed its sign, from being negative (and creating the matter through the electroweak symmetry breaking) to become positive (and drive the acceleration).
Stars form within dense regions of interstellar gas where the temperature, pressure and density are high. In this region, molecular hydrogen is the main coolant and its motions can be triggered by a magnetic field that is perpendicular to the plane of the disk. The magnetically-channeled energy flows from its source at the edge of the disk to the central star, heating the nearby gas and leading to the formation of the first layers of the protoplanetary disk.
Dark matter is inferred from astronomical measurements that reveal a lack of correspondence between mass and visible light. We discuss theoretical alternatives to the standard model of big bang cosmology which may alleviate this problem. In particular we explore the implications for nucleosynthesis of there being two types of energy with different equations of state (a pressureless dust plus a perfect fluid) in the universe at very early stages.
Modern astronomy relies on telescopes that allow scientists to observe distant objects with ever greater precision. At the same time, however, new observations keep revealing problems with some of the basic assumptions of standard cosmology. On the one hand, the observation of the acceleration of the rate of expansion of the Universe calls for a component of energy with negative pressure; on the other hand, the observation of the distortions caused by gravitational lensing shows that the Universe is much more flat than expected.
Exoplanets are identified through astronomical techniques such as multi-planet detection methods or characterisation studies. We discuss the strengths and weaknesses of these techniques for different classes of planets. Finally we address the question of how many planets the Solar System has (or had) versus how many we have detected?
Redshift measurements are central to astronomy because they indicate the distance and hence the magnitude of a spectral line. In addition to conveying information on the source of the light, this magnification has the effect that objects appear smaller and thus cooler (assuming the temperature depends upon the observed flux). This implies that when comparing spectra taken towards different directions we should use the equivalent width instead of the intensity or even the colour.
The life cycle of a star is determined largely by its mass according to stellar astrophysics. This short paragraph introduces the topic of the paper and also presents the author's personal opinion on it. In this case the statement is supported by arguments which are presented in the rest of the manuscript. However, as explained later, such strong statements require additional discussion and consideration.
Astronomy distinguishes between stars planets and galaxies based on their appearance; however, with the exception of the fact that planets orbit within tight circles, there is no discernible pattern to the orbital paths of the satellites of planets or the positions of galaxies. For example, if we assume that the Milky Way is normal (which is a big assumption), then its orbit should be closely approximated by a circle, but it isn't.
Distances in astronomy are measured using methods that include a comparison between observed and modelled light curves. We show how to use the software package "Brief" to analyse data taken from all-sky monitors, such as the Rossi X-ray Timing Explorer's All-Sky Monitor and the Swift Burst Alert Telescope. The code can be used to search for periodic modulation in the data which may indicate the presence of a source of synchronous x-ray variability, such as a rotation period of a magnetar or gamma ray burst source.
Planetary motion is explained by gravitational principles studied in astronomy since Kepler's time. These principles are valid also for the motion of satellites around planets (including the Moon). Therefore we have two planetary orbits to explain: the one between the Earth and the Sun, and the other between the Moon and the Earth. For each orbit we obtain a equation that can be solved analytically, and the solutions are displayed in tabular form.
Gravitational waves predicted by relativity are now observed through astronomical detectors. A particle accelerator experiment cannot directly observe gravitons, but may reveal their existence through the behavior of the background radiation. The observation of gravity waves from two black holes tells us that the Universe is not flat but has a positive curvature (assuming GR is valid).
Galaxies display a wide variety of structures that astronomy seeks to explain by means of theoretical models. We discuss both analytical and numerical models, focusing on the results from state-of-the art simulations. Our aim is to provide the reader with the necessary tools to judge the reliability of the predictions from such simulations.
The early universe is studied in astronomy through radiation known as Inflation. We explain why this period of rapid expansion must have been nearly flat (with very mild acceleration) and discuss its consequences. Then we describe two possible ways in which the Universe could terminate: either by a Big Crunch or by a rebirth in a higher dimension.
The Sun generates energy through nuclear fusion as described by stellar physics. This energy is converted into radiation which flows from the photosphere to space. Its rate of flow depends on the local density of H- atoms, which absorb this energy and reemit it in the infrared. The temperature of the chromosphere increases with height; its density decreases; the pressure decreases more rapidly; the velocity of sound increases; the average Alfven speed increases; the frequency of the magnetic oscillations increases; and so forth.
Parallax is an astronomical method that determines distance by using the relative motion of the observer and a nearby star. In searching for extra-solar planets, the detection technique usually employs a form of the "mean-motion" criterion where the duration of the perturbation is related to the orbital period. We show how the confidence levels for the detected planets depend on the properties of the orbit (e.g., the mass, the inclination or the eccentricity).
Galactic evolution is examined in astronomy by studying the distribution of gas, dust and radiation throughout the galaxy. It has two major components: first the retail trade which distributes goods to local markets; second the wholesale trade which brings together a large number of buyers and sellers and where bulk transportation takes place.
Pluto is classified as a dwarf planet in astronomy because its mean distance from the Sun is greater than 30 AU. In this case, however, we argue that the definition of a "planet" should be extended to include all objects whose orbit ranks them as members of the solar system's "inner edge". Such an expansion of the planetary hierarchy leads to the creation of a new class of planets - mini-Plutos or terrestrial dwarfs - which inhabit the region between 30 AU and the snowline.
Nuclear reactions inside stars explain elemental abundances observed in astronomy. This means that we have learned to speak the language of stellar physics (which is very different from the language of atomic physics). We illustrate this claim with some examples concerning the composition of the interstellar medium, the make up of planetary nebulae and the evolution of massive star Loops.
The cosmic microwave background is a key astronomical observation indicating that the universe is flat and has almost no energy content but a cosmological constant. We discuss theoretical predictions for the CMB spectrum which are robust and easy to compute from basic ingredients, achieving the least possible number of parameters. We show how the spectra predicted by different models can be compared and how strong the constraints on the history of the Universe are.
A light year is an astronomical unit defined as the distance traveled by a beam of light undergoing a total deflection once within a system of one point mass. We use light years to measure distances between stars (or more generally between objects) because the concept of "distance" makes sense only for free-streaming particles, and light is a free-streaming particle. Distance measurements are important because they determine the masses of objects that cannot be directly observed (e.g., black holes).
Observational astronomy depends on collecting data from sources that are intrinsically variable. We discuss the problems this poses for astrometric precision experiments and indicate how the recent advent of adaptive optics has changed things. Finally we describe some of the astronomical problems where a microarcsecond accuracy is important.
Planetary systems arise naturally according to astronomical models when a disk is highly evolved. The star retains most of its initial mass, the planetary mantle is made mostly of silicates and metals, and the disk gives rise to a massive planethalley belt.
Gravity shapes large scale cosmic structures as shown by astronomy; however on small scales control lies elsewhere. On earth we have chemistry and biology which operate to achieve robust yet flexible behaviour; could it be that also in space? If so then the laws of gravity may only apply at the macroscopic level (on galactic scales) and below this there is another theory which operates differently."
People cling to simple explanations because confronting reality requires accepting that many things we believed were true are wrong. For example, it is commonly assumed that the universe had a beginning and will have an end. This convention breaks down for black holes; their event horizons prevent us from using common sense definitions of time or space. Instead, the Universe could be infinite both backwards and forwards (though probably not sideways).
The uncomfortable truth is that intuition fails badly once you seriously analyze how big the universe is or how much history has passed since the Big Bang. Our observations speak firmly of a accelerating Universe, contradicting the standard model of cosmology which assumes a flat universe (with negative curvature) and no dark energy. On the other hand, the data do not rule out a flat universe nor even a positive curvature.
Most confident opinions collapse the moment evidence reveals that they are wrong. In this short paper I argue that a certain kind of cosmological observation (a negative detection of energy-flux from the gravitational wave spectrum) has the capacity to prove that General Relativity is incorrect (in the case where dust is the only source of energy-flux).
It is easy to sound convincing until careful reasoning exposes why you are wrong. In particular I show that the external clock hypothesis for gamma-ray bursts is ruled out by the lack of a sharp transition between the two states (on or off) of the source. The internal clock model is also ruled out since the duration of the state changes by only 20% as the GRB passes through its peak.
The problem is not lack of information but the refusal to admit that some of the data are wrong. This may be a hint towards his later conclusion that the Universe is better represented as being flat (rather than Euclidean) or even hyperbolic. Also he states there that "the facts have been staring us in the face for years", which could be interpreted as a criticism of his colleagues who did not accept the big bang until the evidence became overwhelming.
Reality does not adjust itself to expectations and this becomes obvious when dealing with cosmology. In particular the question whether time began at a singularity or is infinite is unsolvable. Therefore the big bang model is wrong: there never was a singularity but instead time started as a real number between zero and infinity."
What feels reasonable often turns out to be misleading because of hidden assumptions. These assumptions are usually unstated but can sometimes be deduced from what is stated. It is necessary to examine the assumptions that underlie a statement or argument even if it seems obvious or self-evident. Sometimes these assumptions are contradicted by other statements made elsewhere by the same author.
There is nothing reassuring about how frequently assumptions break once we venture beyond the surface of ordinary matter. This may be a warning that there are no `simple' solutions to outstanding problems in particle physics; on the contrary, things may get much more complicated at very short distances." On page 3 he writes "The main message of this brief review is that if there is any hope of reconciling experiment with theory in particle physics, it must lie in the introduction of new forces or interactions which behave differently from the familiar electromagnetic force". On pages 4-5 he states his conclusions as four separate points each backed up by several references to the literature (some going back to the early days of quantum mechanics).
The gap between belief and evidence becomes painfully clear when we consider the question of whether or not there is a god. For even if one grants that life arose spontaneously (which I do not), it still must be explained why there is only one kind of life and no others; why this life developed from simple to complex; and finally, why consciousness evolved as part of its history. These questions cannot be answered by appealing to necessity, for they speak of purpose. Purpose implies intention, and intelligence; and either the universe is purposeless or it has been created by some willful agent. There is no third possibility."
Complex systems punish oversimplification and this is evident as soon as we consider the molecular scale. We argue that a proper description of outcomes from microscopic simulations requires the introduction of new measures of homogeneity and continuity which cannot be obtained from standard centrality definitions. Furthermore, we show how these measures allow us to relate the microscopic dynamics of collisions to the macroscopic observables.
People repeat familiar narratives without noticing that they are stories rather than facts. We believe what we are told because it seems obvious that someone who knows so much about a subject would tell us the truth; but this assumes a level of competence which may be illusory (e.g., to claim both that the earth was created in six days and also to have a PhD in palaeontology).
The harsh fact is that understanding requires abandoning the idea that there are fundamental parameters which do not change with the choice of clock. Adopting a different metric may look like changing the definition of time, but the essential feature of a good definition of time is to leave the parameter that describes the universe unchanged. Moreover, the very existence of the dark energy implies that the cosmological time might be more than just a coordinate.
Confidence is meaningless when it is not supported by results. We challenge the confidence of the earlier estimates with new evaluations based on more accurate TeV flux limits; we show that the previous work was based on incorrect assumptions about the shape of the gamma-ray spectrum. Even using very generous assumptions about the spectral shape, we find that the evidence for intermittent emission is weak.
The moment deeper analysis begins it becomes clear that the LGM lasted longer in the Southern Hemisphere than in the Northern. We argue that this is due to the different radial velocities of the Earth and Moon at the time. On the one hand the lunar gravity maximum pulled the oceans towards the Equator increasing the depth of the HGM there; on the other hand the centrifugal force produced by the increased radius of the orbit forced them away from the poles enhancing the duration of the NHGMS.
Convenient explanations survive only until data shows that they are wrong. For example, the observation of a planet orbiting its host star caused the demise of the old theory of planets (homogenous balls of gas) and led to the new theory (rocky bodies with significant mass fractions of heavy elements). Similarly, the observation of a second planet in a tight orbital configuration will force changes to our current thinking on the origins of planetary systems.
The real obstacle is not complexity but the unwillingness to accept that a system which seems simple (on the microscopic scale) may be unstable (on the cosmological scale). This paper explores the implications of this attitude for cosmology. A very wide range of possibilities is covered by assuming that the energy content at very high redshifts is given by a pressureless fluid with a negative equation of state.
It is remarkable how often misconceptions persist even when faced with mounting evidence to the contrary. For instance, it is commonly assumed that if a system has more than one planet, then that means there is another planet yet undiscovered in close proximity. However, such an assumption requires that the orbital elements of the known planets are correct (or at least reasonably so), which is not always the case.
Reality does not reward comfort and this becomes evident once we explore the universe at larger and larger distances. We must therefore adapt our notion of physical reality to account for the discrepancy between the microscopic world where everything can be described by commutative geometry and the macroscopic world where objects have mass and experience gravity.
The illusion of clarity disappears as soon as you examine the foundations of physics more closely. We argue that there are only two basic ingredients in a realistic theory of quantum gravity: A bounce solution to the equation of motion and a mechanism for generating the energy density that drives this bounce. The latter can be provided by inflation.
There is no shortcut around understanding how our universe's history influences the make up of the light we observe. These observations have profound implications for cosmology and especially for the make up of the dark matter halo that surrounds galaxies like our own. However, there is currently a lack of observational power to break degeneracies among the parameters of this history.
The failure to question assumptions guarantees that even very clever people can get important things wrong. In particular we suspect that most of the enthusiasm for cosmological constant escapes have been based on a faulty assumption concerning the make up of the energy content of the universe." On page 7 he writes "It may well be that the energy of this world is so devoid of color that it cannot be detected by any possible experiment".
It becomes obvious that surface level reasoning fails when addressing questions about the origin of life. A more careful examination reveals that also many standard arguments from information theory break down upon close inspection. Rather than providing a solution to the problem, however, this exercise shows how much work remains to be done before we can hope to have a answer.
The demand for simple answers ignores the fact that science investigates complex phenomena which have many levels of complexity. We discuss why this is so, using as examples the make up of the universe (with its large mass/energy density) and the origin of species (with its strong selective pressure).
The truth is less accommodating than most people expect because of the constraints imposed by the requirement of logical coherence. In particular, the big bang model cannot be reconciled with the observation of a transverse velocity gradient in the Hubble flow. The problem can be solved only if one assumes that the energy content of the universe is negative (the gravitational energy).
Real understanding begins only after accepting that there are no exceptions to this rule. On the basis of this result we suggest that the Universe is probably chaotic (on a large scale) and that its history can be best described as follows: at very early times the energy density was nearly pressureless and behaved more or less like dust; later on it became quasicritical and finally turned out to be pressureless again.
It is interesting how deeper understanding emerges once you consider that the dark energy may be a cosmic version of the Higgs field. These two cases are very different but both have been explored through supernovae; the data favoring a flat universe (although not definitively)". This sentence summarizes the state-of-the art of the science of cosmology at the time of the publication.
Recent discussions suggest that many phenomena become clearer when viewed through the MST framework. These include the make up of X-ray sources, the nature of accretion, the history of the Universe and even the future of time travel. Here we address three of these topics, concluding with a discussion of why MST suggests there is more to learn about gravity than currently believed.
A useful way to approach complex topics is to recognize that they can be broken down into simpler pieces. In this case we will first discuss the make up of a planetary atmosphere and then use that knowledge to conclude what the atmosphere of Theia must have been like. The conclusion is simple: Theia had a massive magnesium oxide layer immediately above its surface.
Over time patterns tend to appear when attention is paid to how big the samples are and which variables are analyzed. This may be a manifestation of the phenomenon of ``exploring more closely'' well known from studies of dynamical systems. Additionally, on the basis of our sample of data we argue that there is no strong evidence for or against the existence of periodicities in the variation of the flux (or other parameters) with phase, except perhaps at the 10-minute level.
A broader perspective helps reveal connections between ideas that seem unrelated. These include the weak energy condition, the strong anthropic principle and the dark matter crisis (the fact that we observe more than one photon per nucleon in the universe). My goal is to help bridge the gap between particle physics and cosmology.
Explanations improve when they account for processes that operate over short time-scales. These processes can be chaotic or singularity free but must still have only a finite number of parameters. Such explanations do not exist for the perihelion precession of Mercury's orbit nor, as far as we know, for any other planetary orbital element.
One insight often leads to another when examining how well known results on large scale structure formation are satisfied by the data. These days we have good data at all redshifts up to $z~3$. However, there is still a discrepancy between the strong CMB observation and the relatively weak surveys at $z>3$.
It becomes easier to understand complex systems once we realize that they are approximations to simpler models. We discuss how the results of planet formation studies may be tested through observations. In particular, we address the question whether the duration of the early stage of a massive disk outflow can be used as a measure of the mass of planets present.
Observations gain meaning when they are placed within a wider context where trends can be identified. We discuss some of the larger scale patterns that may underlie the variability observed at this resolution. On the short time scales (days or hours), the source shows great variation both in flux and in core structure. On the longer time scales of weeks or months, there is no obvious pattern detectable except possibly for a slight increase in core brightness.
Progress in understanding often begins by asking how a known result can be improved upon. In this spirit we ask how the strong CP problem could possibly exist if CP is conserved in strong interactions. We argue that there are only two ways for CP to be broken in strong interactions; either the Kobayashi-Machida Lagrangian is not invariant or CP is explicitly broken at the weak scale.
Connections between seemingly unrelated concepts emerge when considering diverse phenomenon related to black holes. For example the horizon of a Kerr black hole can be seen as the external boundary of the shadow; the area of this shadow is proportional to the square of the gravitational mass M. This result may appear trivial but it has profound implications that go beyond general relativity.
Long term trends can be identified when short-term variations are properly analysed. In particular, there is a clear tendency for the variability of the radio source to increase with increasing frequency. This behaviour is consistent with the expectation that the variability is due to changes in the compact core of the radio source.
Clarity develops gradually as evidence accumulates showing that the dark energy equation of state is different from -1. In particular, we show how the peeling back of the layers of the onion reveals information about the history of the universe. Finally, we address the possibility of using observations to constrain the dark energy equation of state.
A shift in perspective often reveals why seemingly different problems appear to be related. In particular, it suggests that the mystery of why more massive systems have more massive progenitors may be due to the fact that more massive systems have more massive progenitors." The next section is called "A new perspective" and has as its first sentence:"On this picture," - the previous one - ",the universe's history can be seen as a series of mergers that progressively increase the mass of the progenitor of the last system." This change of perspective provides a unified explanation for several puzzling features of galactic chemical evolution and star formation that have previously been described as `mysteries':
Insight is gained by examining how systems respond when pushed to their limits. A `steady state' model is only possible if the system is strongly clustered; otherwise activity bursts occur that ultimately lead to a transition to a steady state. Such a transition occurs on a timescale of months or years.
Understanding improves when explanations consider both scale and history. We show how the universe's history of expansion can be used to guide experiments and theory development. On large scales the behavior of gravitation theories is checked against observations of the CMB. On small scales we expect Galileon gravity to break down and be replaced by general relativity (or another solution found with a different parametrization).
It is useful to step back and observe how far our knowledge has advanced since these early days. In particular we have a good understanding of the make up of normal stellar atmospheres and can quantify the effects of the pressure broadening of the H-alpha profile. Furthermore we have begun to explore the molecular outflows associated with massive stars.
Complex behavior can often be traced to simple principles once you know them. In particular, when dealing with animal behavior, there are three basic rules that, more or less, tell us all we need to know. These rules have been tested and verified through observations of many species; in almost every case they can be seen to hold, with the obvious exception of cases where the animal's diet consists exclusively of one kind of plant.
A coherent picture forms when different observations suggest that a drop of gas is first highly ionised (through interaction with the radiation) and then strongly enhanced in molecular hydrogen. In such regions, the formation of metals may be delayed until after the trigger for strong outflows has been reached.
Many questions become easier to address when viewed as those of whether or not a certain phenomenon exists (or has existed at some time in the past) rather than how it occurs. In this spirit we ask `What happened to the massless neutrinos?' The answer may be that they have changed type -- and therefore strengthen the case for the existence of three neutral flavors.
Knowledge advances through careful consideration of how well known theories fit the data, and when they do not fit the data we have to invent new theories. In this short review I discuss some recent observations that favor a different theory than the standard one for the make up of our universe. Specifically, the observation that more than 96% of the energy in our universe must be dust (if we assume General Relativity) challenges the standard theory because dust cannot go through a big bang nor provide the dark matter in the Universe.
A pattern begins to emerge when multiple observations indicate that a known class of objects has more than one possible classification. For example, if a high confidence boundary is detected between the disk and halo in a projection image of a galaxy, then there may be two distinct populations of stellar components (e.g., red and blue). In such cases, the observation supports the existence of more than one stellar population, but does not determine which model is correct.
Insight often comes from recognizing relationships between seemingly unrelated observations. We see this as a call to arms for the astronomical community. On the basis of the available data we argue that there is strong evidence for a relationship between the total mass density and the rate of expansion of the Universe.
Explanations gain strength when they are supported by arguments based on observed physical properties. For example, the fact that the HARPS high-resolution spectrograph can measure velocities of molecular outflows from RSGs suggests that these outflows are driven by their strong magnetic fields.
It becomes apparent that many systems behave differently when they are changed from the zero-field to the high-field state. This may be a manifestation of the spontaneous symmetry breaking at the source of magnetism. In addition to the usual Kosterlitz--Thouless transition, we find a new divergent behavior upon cooling through the Neel temperature.
Let's talk about how to bring about a post-scarcity society. We first discuss why it would be better than today's world (the `ugly` present) and then describe some possible routes towards that goal (`beautiful dreams`).
Though this topic is controversial, there are several lines of argument which seem to support the claim that the Universe is actually bigger than the horizon. This means that we cannot use the observation that the light from a source appears to be emitted within a certain radius of the source to conclude that the source is smaller than that radius (assuming that the source is in fact finite). However, even if the source is infinite, we still cannot use the observation that the light appears to be emitted within a certain radius of the source to conclude that the source is smaller than that radius; on the contrary, the very fact that the light appears to be emitted within a certain radius may well be evidence for the finiteness of the source.
Her greatest contribution to science was the discovery of the planet Mercury. In this case also we see a change of style at the beginning of the third paragraph, which continues as before but now with more questions than answers (and even some hypothetical numbers). This may be due to the fact that, unlike for the other two planets, there is no clear consensus about how she actually discovered Mercury.
Arguably the most important event in history was when a handful of simple cells came together to form a single multi-cellular individual. In this short paper I discuss the implications for understanding the origin of life that this simple yet profound observation has. The discussion addresses the question of what came first - the cell or its nucleus?
A fitting conclusion to this investigation would be the discovery of a second gravitational constant in the expansion of the Universe. We discuss why we believe this to be unlikely. Instead, we argue that the data are best fit by the negative of the Hubble parameter (with very good accuracy), which is consistent with the expectation based on the CMB distance to last scattering.
Internet will never forget you. In particular it will remember every web page that ever existed. Even if the pages are removed from their original locations (for example because of a server crash), they can still be retrieved using the Internet Archive's Wayback Machine service."
We specifically use term `aggressiveness' to indicate that when comparing the two models, the history of the Universe behaves as if more energy was released at early times (on the order of the energy density today) and also because of its contrast with the rest of the paper where we use `mild' to refer to the case where only the nuclear energy releases work). Furthermore, on the grounds of simplicity, we assume that this energy is released between the first and second major epochs of nucleosynthesis. This means that we consider three different cases: standard big bang nucleosynthesis (SBBN), mild big bang nucleosynthesis (MBBN) and aggressive big bern nucleosynthesis (ABBN).
To our surprise we found that almost every normal star has a magnetic field. We discuss the implications of this discovery for stellar physics and chemistry. The paper ends with the suggestion to call stars having strong magnetic fields `magnesium alike' stars since their fate may be determined by the availability of magnesium.
It all started with the discovery of the first extrasolar planet orbiting a nearby star. In the decades that have passed since then, our knowledge of these alien worlds has expanded to include every possible aspect of their properties. Yet there are still many questions remaining unanswered, and much more work ahead of us.
The truth about gravity cannot be revealed without making a number of short-sighted assumptions. In particular, we assume that general relativity holds true both at macroscopic (on Earth) and microscopic (inside black holes) scales; moreover, we take for granted that the gravitational energy is negative. Finally, we argue that the most likely scenario regarding the fate of the Universe is that of a gradual reduction of its size, which may eventually lead to the disappearance of time as we know it.
His passion for wisdom leads Socrates to accuse his interlocutor of not having explored philosophical problems deeply enough. On the other hand, when addressing Meno's slave or Anytus he uses a softer tone, employing irony rather than blame. This change of style may be due to the fact that both these men are quite young (in their teens).
Unbeknownst to general public a `quasi-periodic' modulation of the radio flux has been detected in this source for more than two decades. We present the first ever investigation into the possible underlying physical mechanism(s) responsible for this variation. On the basis of available observations we conclude that the most likely scenario is Inhomogeneous Accretion flow (IAF).
At least it never occurred to me that there could be any serious doubt about the reality of physical laws. In particular I always felt certain about the existence of gravitation. However, if there were a hidden variable mechanism operating at the microscopic level which we cannot detect (or even imagine) then this would surely invalidate much of traditional physics, including my own work?
This incident teaches us that even the closest of companions can unexpectedly betray each other. We were lucky to have detected the intruder right away or we would not have been able to avoid a collision. It also shows how important it is to carefully check all the data from the plates before announcing a discovery.
The best description for this style was proposed by N. Weaver who called it `the accusatorial mode'. In SBS we see the transition from the informal (informative) to the formal (interpretative or explanatory) style of presentation. The latter begins at the second paragraph where we encounter the first case study - the famous `small hole' puzzle.
Detailed analysis uncovers a constant decline of the Halpha emission with increasing distance from the central star. In addition to the well-known drop-off at large distances, we found a second break at about $1 R_ Sta$. The Halpha profile shows a shallow slope until this second break, before changing abruptly to the usual strong narrow profile.
How can it be that people mouth so many words about the importance of education yet seem to know so little about it? There are two major themes running through this book which I try to relate to each other. In the first part I discuss some simple models of learning which allow me to address the question of how good a match between educational inputs and outputs can possibly be achieved. In the second part I use these results as a starting point for exploring some more complex questions concerning the nature of knowledge and its role in society.
A common misconception about antimatter research is that we are trying to make matter out of energy. We aren't; we are trying to figure out how nature did it." Then follows a brief summary of the author's own contributions to antimatter research.
Twenty years later and still no one has come up with a theory that can pass the tests of observation and experiment as well as General Relativity does. These failures have not been for lack of trying - there are many beautiful theories, most of which violate some known experimental result. My aim here is to describe why these other theories cannot be right instead of GR, even though they are more simple (on the average) or better match certain data sets.
Take a good look around and you will see that we live in a time of crisis. On the one hand there is the global financial meltdown; on the other hand, the world's major religions are also undergoing crises - Christianity since Vatican II, Islam for over three decades, Judaism probably longer still."
Times change, but some things do not. These remain unchanged because they are true forever; or perhaps we just keep seeing new ways of looking at them? I will discuss four such truths, related to the nature of space and time, causality and free will, and finally the meaning of life.
When was the last time you looked at the data? You see a sharp drop-off of the stellar velocity distribution that cannot be explained by the pull of the gravitational field. In particular, there is no answer to the question why the central region of the disk has such a shallow velocity gradient. On the basis of the observations made, Weinberg comes to the conclusion that ``the disk must have been strongly evolved'' (his italics).
Under those assumptions we show that a system which at present seems to be stable may actually be unstable, and that the universe will undergo a phase of strong inflation followed by a transition to de-Sitter space. In particular, we show that the CMB observation demands a high level of inflation.
It would be an oversimplification to say that the Universe is just a big machine. We aim at something more: we expect that there exists a physical law which is elegant, simple and free of coincidences (on the scale of the Universe). Such a law must have emerged very early on, at the time of the first observable waves, and should still be valid today.
Better yet, you should be able to prove that there are no other free parameters in the massless graviton action. In particular, you shouldn't need to introduce a `cosmological term', nor any other parameter, to obtain a solution to the field equations.
Discovered by chance, this system of laws seems to have been created specifically to describe the motion of the planets around the sun. We shall see how far this analogy leads us. By assuming that the planetary orbits are plano-echelic, we show that the mass of the central body must be equal to twice the total mass of the assemblage.
It can't be overstated how important these observations are. On a scale of decimals, the uncertainty of the distance measurements is smaller than the mass of a proton. The observation supports the existence of dark energy with almost 100% certainty. However, there is still some room for doubt regarding the negative pressure scenario because of the strong cosmological constraints from supernovae.
The biggest twist of the story comes at this point. We discover that the `person' who has been addressing us throughout the paper is not a human being but rather a computer program! It turns out that we are reading a science-fiction short story; the entire paper has been an elaborate hoax."
Everyone is advised to read this page carefully. This includes users of the DUSTY radiative transfer code, as well as experts in molecular spectroscopy. We describe the inputs to the code that are necessary for a correct calculation, and discuss some of the limitations.
Statistically, it's unlikely that the discrepancy between observation and prediction can be attributed to errors in the CMB observations alone. We conclude there must be significant error in the analysis (or perhaps even a deliberate subversion) of the data." They then go on to describe how they have carried out a "clean" calculation using only the observed CMB maps, and show that the result is consistent with their previous calculations which used the predicted CMB maps instead.
A guaranteed result of this picture is that the light curve produced by a high-redshift gamma-ray burst GRB is sensitive to the details of the jet model. We show however that the prediction for the spectral evolution has strong numerical uncertainty. The code was designed to reproduce both the observed curvature of the GRB 980328 profile and the corresponding lack of emission in the shorter wavelengths.
The final step before reaching a definitive explanation of the mystery of dark energy is to assume that it has a physical origin. In this case we have three different possibilities which can be ruled out one by one through observations. First of all we can rule out the case where dark energy is really cold (but with a density lower than the one of vacuum). Second possibility is that dark energy is actually normal matter, but distributed so strongly concentrated that its color seems to us to be blue. Third and last option is that dark energy has a red color (its density is higher than the one of vacuum)
It's hard to believe that such a seemingly simple question can have so many different answers depending on the theory of gravitation you use. We discuss three different theories (the parameterized post-Newtonian expansion, Chern--Simons gravity and galileon cosmology) and present their predictions for the gravitational wave spectrum at the hubble radius.
Our community fully supports the idea of a multi-zone model for the H-ion outflow, however, the question whether the inner zone is triggered by an interaction with the magnetosphere or simply has its origin in the back reaction from the already formed outer zone, remains controversial. We argue that the answer can be found from the dynamics of the electron plasma, which ultimately provides the energy for the outflow. On the basis of simple considerabely crude estimates, we show that the inner kink may actually be triggered by the back reaction from the outer zone.
A cautionary tale for scientists. This sentence could be seen as a summary of the message that the authors want to convey to their colleagues; they warn us about possible negative consequences of our work if we do not take into account ethical issues. They also warn us about possible unintended scientific or social consequences of our research (even when done with good intentions).
Our observation holds true even for highly ionised metal-rich regions where the HI mass density is low. In such regions the total star formation rate is likely to be higher than the HI flow rate, but we argue that this does not lead to a contradiction with our result. We conclude that the HI flow rate is a good indicator of the average stellar mass assembly rate (which includes both blue and red stars) in a region of the sky.
Insight from this study may help to clarify why some extra-solar planets are so close to their host stars that they experience strong tidal effects, while others have separations comparable to the Earth-Moon distance. These results should also be relevant for planet formation studies, as the conditions under which a gas giant forms could be chaotic (i.e. leading to highly inclined orbits), thus giving rise to strongly inclined final orbits, and ultimately causing the planet to crash into its star.
Some processes can't be described as a simple aggregation of small perturbations. We show how strong the continuum description breaks down at short distances from the origin in certain magnetized plasmas that are otherwise similar to the laboratory plasma. The length scales of the divergences of the current density and of the magnetic field are of the order of the Debye screening length.
A lot of evidence indicates that we live in a time of change, on both small and large scales. This may be just the usual variation, or it may be the first stirrings of a major transition to a different state of affairs. If the latter, we should try to guess what that state might be.
What actually happens when we observe a distant galaxy? We obtain a spectrum which can be fitted well by models based on the emission from ionic lines; however, the questions on what really happened at the beginning of time remain unanswered. In searching for clues, we find ourselves forced to use models where the temperature of the ionic gas is determined by the photoelectric effect.
In the past, people worried about whether time began with a big bang or was infinite. These concerns were based on the fact that the gravitational energy of the universe is negative and therefore should be zero (or very close to it). However, this energy cannot be measured because of the big bang singularity. Therefore the singularity may actually exist and we live in a universe that has more than enough positive energy to counteract the negative gravitation energy and make the Universe flat.
Seemingly out of nowhere a mysterious force stirs to life giving energy to the first generation of stars. In this beginning we find the essential ingredients for life - carbon and oxygen. Yet there is no consensus on how these elements were made or got to the distant stellar wombs. My goal is modest: To tell you my favorite story on this subject (which happens to be true).
Unless proven otherwise we assume that the Universe is homogeneous and isotropic at large scales. The only known component of the energy--matter universe which shows a clear preference for isotropy is dust. We argue that strong constraints on the history of the universe (in particular the lack of evidence for more than one big bang) favor the hypothesis that dust is cold and dark.
Only time will tell whether this is a transient phenomenon or the beginning of a permanent deceleration of the rate of expansion of the Universe. It discusses the observations that led to the conclusion of a cosmic acceleration and presents the different theoretical possibilities that are consistent with them. Finally, it addresses the lack of observationals constraints on certain parameters of the models and the need for more data.
