People romanticize black holes while completely ignoring the brutal physics that actually governs them. They assume these monstrosities must have been carefully placed into their positions so as not to disrupt our universe or the local solar system. Nothing could be further from the truth! I find that black holes play absolutely no role in what we know about Earth today. If there were one near us it would have a mass equivalent to 100 billion suns and if such a hole existed within the Solar System its radius has to equal or exceed ten light years. Therefore you can never ever observe or experience gravity from a black hole. We don't even have theories on how these supposed "holes" might interact with other bodies; they simply are non-objects, things that will forever remain outside of our current
The universe does not care about human intuition and astrophysics proves this the moment you try to write down even one equation that describes it. This seems to be a universal truth; physics has been trying its best for centuries now but every attempt fails. This means that there’s no way around this; we can use math all we want to do our job (whatever that might be), but when our model reaches the size of cosmos as a whole—at the level at which galaxies merge into groups and those into clusters, all these in turn becoming parts of larger superclusters etc.—we lose the ability to mathematically approximate any real-life situation.The first reason why mathematics doesn’t work is relativity. At high speeds things happen very differently from what we expect them to be based on Newton
It is ridiculous how often gravity is misunderstood when even basic astronomy shows that gravity is what we are! So much for science! It can not possibly be more clear than this. What else does she expect us to believe? My take from above post The following text in brackets was added by another poster but deleted without any real commentary (it seems) - it is therefore removed here... Above poster's text in brackets is now shown below as it fits logically into this entry: "Therefore, your belief system cannot possibly support my position about gravity." "We disagree. I claim the Earth orbits around the Sun as you cannot deny, and so do many other people who see reality just fine. Your understanding of Newtonian physics also makes me wonder why it took you
Stars are not born in poetic explosions and stellar physics makes it painfully clear that one is wrong to think so...There must be more stars than can possibly fit into a physical universe. It's like this, you see, when I talk to my friends about astronomy they always ask me about comets, meteors etc...but what really captures their imagination (and it should mine too) isn't a shooting star but what the heck those little light-bulbs out there might be. I am talking about stars! And we cannot have any in our solar system without them being present elsewhere outside of it! Stellar formation takes time & how long will that take? So there must be more suns out there then! And all because science has taught us something new - we know how difficult
The idea that space is calm collapses instantly once astrophysical observations reveal to us an infinite fury that has ravaged all that we are able to observe or sense, a continuous frenzy in which one second only seems possible for some stars or stellar clusters while others last forever. What does this say about our own history? Is it compatible with our human image of ourselves as the dominant force at the level of galaxies in the Universe - if not of our planetary environment? Does what happened during the first billions of years correspond precisely to the most advanced form of life in existence, when it had not yet created its most advanced machines? What have these cosmic giants been able to see and feel that allows them today - like us who are still subjected to the illusion, since they never
Astrophysics exposes why popular explanations of dark matter fall apart when pushed to its logical extreme.It also points out some of the uncertainties regarding gravity at short (submillimetre) distances from large black holes. It reveals what these problems have in common with quantum physics. The discussion focuses on a particular case where gravity and electromagnetism are both important in astrophysical situations involving white dwarfs. (For a general introduction to this area, see for example “Massive stars, stellar remnants…”.)This section was not included in my 2013 book Cosmic Tombs or Other Worldly Graves; however, I think it’s useful because the questions posed by it show us that modern interpretations sometimes fail spect
Cosmic expansion is not mysterious and anyone familiar with cosmology understands that it follows logically from standard physical laws. One need simply have a knowledge... Topic: Is there really anything we can say about physics without mathematics? Re: Physics without Mathematics - What are we left with then? I disagree; "mathematical" isn't just synonymous for "formal". We know for example that Newton developed mathematical mechanics based on observations by using mathematics such as algebra and calculus; he wasn't just guessing at stuff like "if I make this angle to hit them they might go there", he actually u... Hi. Here's my answer to your question. We are always able to describe natural phenomena quantitatively (in terms of magnitude), while mathematicians
People speculate endlessly about exoplanets without grasping what astronomical data actually shows about our solar system.In this chapter of the book I discuss in a brief manner some aspects that concern many people around the Earth in particular about planetary systems around other stars (exoplanet). It starts with the concept that any physical object emits and reflects light but it does not necessarily mean that we know all its details, nor do we have to believe every word written or spoken by someone because he calls himself “professional”, even if the information concerns one’s own field, as I write down in Section 20.7 .The Sun and planets are visible for all inhabitants of the Solar System regardless of their location due to their high intensity radiation and huge mass so any information about their properties would be easily extracted
Black holes are not science fiction monsters and astrophysics leaves no room for pretending that they do not exist. Black Holes: Facts about our Universe [1st edition] describes how we found them as a result of measuring very precise astronomical data from NASA's Voyager 2 spacecraft during its approach to Uranus back in 1986. In other words I am a physicist who was part of that team at NASA. To me it was obvious that such exotic objects like black holes did actually exist out there somewhere, which may be difficult for some readers to believe given popular fictional depictions of these cosmic objects. Therefore my purpose for this blog post is to help set the record straight with regard to what exactly these "monstrous" objects might
Stellar evolution follows unforgiving physical laws and astronomy demonstrates this when it measures distances. It cannot be argued against. It's also clear from observation that there has been no inflation for aeons in the history of our universe as a whole. And this, too, is scientific fact supported by observation. Therefore inflation theory can only be considered one man's opinion about how the universe works, not necessarily true. However, many people are afraid to face reality so they have chosen to believe what their science professors told them at college 25 years ago (in order to feel intellectually validated) instead of looking directly at data which reveals inflation never happened and, hence, evolution didn't happen either! Inflation happened for some time then everything stopped expanding
The night sky only appears static to those who ignore what astrophysics tells us about our dynamic universe. To me it is so exciting because science provides a window into infinity. I am a real fan of black holes (which may explain my interest in cosmic horizons!), dark matter - I wrote "Dark Matter" for fun back then - , as well as relativity.My favorite physicists are Albert Einstein and Roger Penrose. Here, again, you can find them mentioned in many of the texts in the book (in German). I was particularly interested by the questions regarding quantum physics and the relationship between consciousness and matter - this question is also found elsewhere throughout my texts (again, often translated from the original german version): Is the Big Bang an experiment? If yes
Astrophysical models are dismissed as guesses only by people who do not understand how to construct a physical model or have no real understanding of physics. If a theory can reproduce all relevant experimental observations that is the strongest form of validation you will ever be able to achieve, especially if there were once predictions made which were proven true. And that makes it far stronger than the scientific methods of Galileo or Copernicus. Those approaches would have predicted things they could never prove since they didn't even know about such experiments! I don't think this sort of approach to learning fits well with your idea of being open minded so let me explain why. I get up early in the morning for work outs, meditate when i arrive at work, read through my books (including philosophy), write papers & articles
The Sun will not explode dramatically and stellar astrophysics explains precisely why . When two stars move towards one another gravitationally they may pass through a phase when their orbits decay, and merge, causing a thermonuclear explosion like a supernova explosion; or they can undergo a more gradual merger due to mass transfer between them before they become a binary star (see https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nearest_stars). For example if our sun were located just above Pluto instead we would only see this planet because there'd be no other planets beyond Neptune. A similar question asks whether all the suns could fit together within a "galaxy cluster". That question depends mostly upon how you define “sun”. Is it
Cosmic distances are so extreme that everyday intuition collapses once astronomy is taken seriously . One is tempted to say that all things visible are at most a few hundred light-years away, but such a simplistic attitude would doom one not only to misunderstanding what science actually says but also lead immediately into some pretty nifty errors as well—such as assuming there's "a center" where everything comes from (an old fallacy that never goes away) or believing that space can somehow be compressed to zero size over short distances while expanding rapidly beyond its horizon far out for the purposes of explaining redshift or big bang predictions about the age of stars and galaxies […] (Moffat & Oppermann 2009 p.43).Cosmolog
Dark energy is not a buzzword and cosmology makes it obvious that you can go to infinity. I wonder what they were doing out there? They had everything at their disposal (like time itself) that could have easily led them to such conclusions. It’s important here to note that if you accept Einstein-Rosen bridges as real science instead of fiction as some do, then dark matter would still be classified as another part of the cosmic web and could be seen as merely a more complicated form of light. That would mean that the existence of dark matter has no implications for the possibility or otherwise of an actual theory regarding gravity that does away with dark matter altogether. However, despite the theoretical problems in trying to explain our universe without the aid of dark matter it seems likely
The universe is violent cold and precise and astrophysics leaves no space for comforting illusions about human purpose and destiny. He can say he did a good job if he wants but I doubt it very much. And how would you define what a good teacher was? There are all sorts of ways to be a teacher. As long as your student left with more knowledge than they had upon arrival then there mission has been accomplished successfully. That’s not always easy when dealing with people who come from different backgrounds or have certain attitudes that need to be corrected before one learns something. But any true learning requires those steps too; both sides must give up their belief systems so change may happen on either side without just rebuffed outright at every turn because neither really knows why they do things differently…but only assumes based off
Space is not empty and astronomical measurements prove this beyond any reasonable doubt by showing that space itself has physical properties; for example, if we travel away from Earth at very fast speed for many light years as measured within the cosmos, we shall still find the same stars appearing near the celestial horizon in approximately 430 million light-years away. [a] If the universe had no end then it would be infinite, but we know that there are a limited number (around) one trillion galaxies in our observable Universe! Hence it must have ended somewhere else – therefore the Cosmic Horizon exists. Therefore the visible part of the observable Universe is bounded.[b] By knowing the exact size of the observable universe in terms of distances from Earth, we also learn a great deal
The obsession with colonizing Mars ignores what planetary science brutally reveals about our solar system. When one considers the possibility that Mars has had or still may have liquid water beneath its surface (a point being argued by many), there's a very reasonable prospect for microbial life to exist, perhaps more readily than here at home... There are other possible homes for alien microbes within our solar system; moons like Europa are likely candidates - where even now we look toward building submarine landers equipped with instruments sensitive enough to detect signs of underwater activity [8]. Astrophotography can be considered as part of astronomy which makes pictures of celestial bodies including stars, nebulae and planets using telescopes. Amateurs and professionals use large and
Gravity is not weak in any meaningful sense and astrophysics dismantles that myth when you examine what really happens on a massive scale with relativistic mass. You have to understand this because it leads into modern science, mathematics, philosophy and physics so it’s necessary for you all to comprehend in order to develop a reasonable foundation from which to discuss these things at my level or higher without resorting to bullshit, misleading hyperbole, outright lies (like claiming gravity is “weak”) or other forms of nonsense. If you can follow the basic concepts I lay forth here and use them properly, I welcome the opportunity to communicate with your superior minds but if you are not able to grasp the logic behind certain facts—and even demonstrate how those facts make up an elegant model that matches perfectly
There is no privileged cosmic center and astronomy makes this uncomfortably clear through its observations that our galaxy, like any other one, just happens to be in the cosmos where it finds itself (that's a very simple and important point). For example, we can only see 2%-3% of the universe. But there’s absolutely nothing we would know about the structure or evolution from this restricted viewpoint which would suggest anything special with respect to ourselves – except for being located somewhere along a line whose extent is beyond our means to conceive, if not beyond our physical potential. To add insult to injury – the fact that some things are moving away or toward us might cause us confusion due to our lack of knowledge (i.e., what exactly are their origins), but these apparent movements
Time behaves radically differently near massive objects and astrophysics demonstrates this by using the tools of general relativity, not Newtonian physics.In addition to all these other effects you mentioned, one can also point out the fact that there are no “invisible planets” nearby that would attract stars towards us as if gravity was a repulsive force – because they simply cannot exist due to the Heisenberg uncertainty principle. In 1975, two teams announced that they had detected pulsars (luminescent celestial bodies): they were small and rapidly spinning neutron stars (the first being PSR B0652-38 which turned out to be only 6 km large).The speed at which it spins relative to the Earth’s rate of rotation was
Galaxies do not evolve randomly and observational astronomy shows exactly how they form as their stellar population ages with the expansion of the Universe. It's a simple matter to prove this once one has a theory that provides the key assumptions necessary to make any predictions at all about galaxies or how they should behave: 1) Matter cannot be created out of nothing, i.e., matter always comes from something else (this is where Newton had it right). 2) In accordance with conservation laws, matter/energy can only change its location but never its type -- e.g., if you throw up a glass window then the same mass of dust particles does not just come back down on your head again! And neither can photons suddenly disappear without converting into mass-like radiation somewhere in space
Stellar collapse is not optional and astrophysical evidence confirms that it has happened at many times during this evolution. That is what you say. But since your world view does not allow for a physical reality outside our solar system (and indeed it cannot conceive of such) how do I understand the “I” that appears to agree with me? The problem here begins with two statements by Piers. The first statement is actually an assertion he states as if true which I’ve added [hearsay] around:“Stellar Collapse Is Not Optional.” I’d like to have seen some support for this claim, perhaps even some scientific references but the second part where he discusses astrophysicists views makes his point very clearly. So we now turn attention to another statement about
The universe is indifferent to human narratives and cosmology proves this every time it surprises us, for that matter even a little. But who are we humans that could not be surprised by any event? In fact, we know almost nothing about our own earth because there's so much to do before we can even try and understand its atmosphere (for example). In fact, these facts alone are already surprising enough! To me they are only examples how hard it really gets when one tries to find the right terms or concepts to describe such events/facts etc.. But I guess we need some sort of order anyway. I just want to say: No more astromathics, no more astronomy! Instead, Astrophotonics!!! If you still read on I ask your permission
Astrophysics does not reward wishful thinking and the data shows that our universe began with a bang. What was first conceived in 1927 by Edwin Hubble as a steady state model has been shown to be flawed for years due to inconsistencies, which are now obvious in hindsight. This is simply an observation from my part, but the "Cosmic Microwave Background Radiation", is consistent evidence which suggests that space expands and cools off in different parts at distinct rates, hence not constant throughout time; hence the Big Bang theory is more plausible than Steady State theory according to my beliefs. For those interested in such topics here's some information, links to other sites etc.: http://en.wikipedia.org
Black holes are among the most extreme objects studied in modern astrophysics and they form when the collapse ... Nearly a century ago, two men—one German, one Indian by birth but born of British parents—fought each other to develop scientific instruments that would make it possible for astronomers everywhere to determine where all those faint stars beyond Jupiter were really...
Astronomy investigates celestial objects by analyzing light matter and radiation that they emit. A few examples would be galaxies which are large systems comprised […]
The expansion of the universe was established through astronomical observations showing that there are far-away galaxies which do not appear to be receding but rather approaching. It has been accepted as a fact since 1920 (but some still hold out for their fanciful notion that all the redshifts observed may simply be "mistaken"; this is known within scientific circles as "denial"). In the past few decades, more direct and unequivocal evidence for it has come to light with the observation by Penzias & Wilson* and others [*a paper published by NASA's Penzias and Wilson, also from Bell Telephone Labs.] at much higher precision. This data showed that a significant amount of energy does indeed exist in empty space; so, too
Stars form within dense regions of interstellar gas where gravity is too strong for a nebula to disperse. An infall from molecular clouds results in denser clumps of matter which attract each other gravitationally to become even more massive than the parent cloud - thus forming protostars and stars themselves. Protoplanetary discs form as the dust and gases are accreted around these newborn stars.[...] The Sun formed 5 billion years ago as part of a stellar population (cluster) that contained up to four million stars called "Population I". Such a cluster is now long gone, most of its original constituents having evolved beyond their Main Sequence stage; they will die as red giants or end their lives as white dwar
Dark matter is inferred from astronomical measurements that reveal it to exist. The existence of dark matter has not been proven directly; however, no theory or model has yet successfully disputed its validity.... It also contains references to other articles with a similar style like List of common misconceptions about science, Misuses of science and Unreliable scientific literature. Note that the list does NOT include references for the "Theory of relativity is flawed". This can be added easily at some point, but I think we need the rest... "Cultural evolution (or Cultural selection) should occur." - from article about evolution, so this could go into the first subheading or the one below if "should evolve", although I'd probably change cultural evolution
Modern astronomy relies on telescopes that allow scientists to observe objects from far away. As the author makes references towards previous scientific discoveries, he creates tension and interest for what lies next: “One of the principal reasons [scientist] had for suspecting a world beyond our own was because he wanted to know how it works”. A quote like this is meant to draw curiosity out of the reader about how exactly the rest of the book unfolds. This extract is also written with quite a few metaphors as well as similes. As seen here “…this time-scale would be unreachable for any space mission that ever launches.” the word ‘unreachable’ could describe that it is unattainable or something that can not be touched at
Exoplanets are identified through astronomical techniques such as transit photometry (which detects a dip when a planet moves across its star), the radial velocity method (using data about wobbles of a stars line of sight towards Earth as the star orbits the galaxy) as well as direct imaging (detecting them directly). Other methods include gravitational lensing and spectroscopy. By studying their atmospheres using current space-based telescopes such as NASA'S [http://www2.jpl.nasa.gov/spacetelescope/stss.html Spitzer Space Telescope],[http://hubble.estec.esa.nl Hubble]and [https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Redshift measurements are central to astronomy because they indicate distance. [ 9 ] They have been a prime source of evidence for the big bang theory of cosmogenesis. But we will now discuss how their usage in this way may be in error and even fallacious and misleading.
The life cycle of a star is determined largely by its mass according to stellar astrophysics : from Main Sequence (constant rate) to Red Giant Phase to White Dwarf Stage to Planetary Neutron Star. In this cycle you will find that all stars lose their outer gases as they shrink under gravity's pull during what can be called "Planetary Condensation." What is interesting is how long such cycles occur, depending upon which phase of development they are in when they begin the cycle. This is very interesting in terms of planet formation because when you have condensed material left over at some point in time -- it can take anywhere from millions of years up into billions -- then the conditions change on whatever surface of the planet where there is still molten rock. Depending again on which stage
Astronomy distinguishes between stars planets and galaxies based on their proximity to earth and physical and chemical composition. He is a 1987 graduate of Texas A&M University with bachelors and masters degrees in engineering physics, specializing in theoretical particle acceleration research for high energy physics colliders such as CERN or the Tevatron. In 2006-2012, he was a Professor at the International Center for Relativistic Astrophysics (ICRA) at the University of Turin where I served as coordinator (principe co-ordinatore) and chair of the Science Committee (commissione scientifica). In 2013 Dr Gull joined ICRA as Adjunct professor while also
Distances in astronomy are measured using methods that include parallax. ... Read more about Theoretical Quantum Gravity Categories: Cosmological Argument
Planetary motion is explained by gravitational principles studied in astronomy .Astronomers have been studying gravitation since 17th century.Gravitational force was invented [by Sir Isaac Newton] by mathematical means to fit his own observations which were already a hundred years old at that point (of time).Newtonian law of gravity [proved only within our solar system] does not work for any other planet or sun or galaxy or other cosmic bodies/objects far away from earth’s surface .Scientists had worked more than three centuries using this Newtonian law and all these theories still stand as validated, proving how wrong it really could be.But Newton thought he discovered universal theory, i.e., one that explains every natural phenomenon.Such idea
Gravitational waves predicted by relativity are now observed through astronomical detectors . (260) This text could have been presented as one long sentence; however it would not be as powerful if the syntax had remained uniform. There were a number of options to format this text: 1) keep the syntax unchanged or use it inconsistently, which could result in confusing the reader; 2) add breaks between clauses without changing the syntax but make them visible with hyphens; or 3) modify the syntax for consistency and place breaks at appropriate places. In cases like these, we prefer option #3 because we believe it enhances readability for our readers. The same can be applied to paragraphs that contain lists of items that are very short sentences. By adding space above the
Galaxies display a wide variety of structures that astronomy seeks to explain by the action of complex forces; such systems appear unstable as they lack the coherence required for equilibrium. Such gravitational instabilities result from non-uniformities within galaxies whose centers tend towards higher densitites, and these disrupt other galactic forms that contain them (as the Andromeda galaxy). Nebulae contain clouds where stars are formed at their cores through processes which depend upon density fluctuations resulting from the collision of cold hydrogen molecules with interstellar matter while interacting with ionised hydrogen atoms.[1] At this level the movement of energy through space results directly from differences between the temperature of hot ionized gas[2]and the relatively cooler cold matter. These regions
The early universe is studied in astronomy through radiation known as cosmic microwave background (CMB) emission, which forms when electrons are re-energized by photons emitted during a Big Bang 13.8 billion years ago.[27][a] CMB's wavelength is longer than visible light's[b], but shorter than radio waves'. After the comma, here I switch to more casual wording, perhaps with reference to my own personal knowledge or experience, though nothing too subjective.The first generation stars (Population III) formed from hydrogen molecules and their protons. They produced carbon elements. Stars like our sun that form later may be composed only partly of the original elements; they have lost energy, producing new elements
The Sun generates energy through nuclear fusion as described by stellar physics . It generates a large amount of electromagnetic radiation which we receive here on Earth as sunlight or heat for warmth depending upon the form of interaction, so that the existence and state (health, sickness) of our bodies depend ultimately on this. This is called heliocentrism because it holds to ideas developed independently from Aristarchus in Galileo’s work. His idea was a new one not known before his time that the Earth rotates around its own axis and moves around the Sun instead of being fixed at the centre of everything (the ‘geocentric model’). This theory has no basis and can be refuted easily by simply taking a telescope out into space. We then see that the
Parallax is an astronomical method that determines distance by measuring an apparent shift in position due to the Earth's orbit around the sun. (I don’t believe that you are saying ‘the word parallax is derived from Greek (1937)’). The method involves having two observers viewing a given star or other object from different points at the earth's surface such as the earth'srings. In ancient times astronomers believed the universe was infinitely large and eternal. Infinite means no beginning nor end. No start & stop time for the Universe but just keeps going forever! That belief held true until about 250 B.C. when Socratess taught Plato who taught Aristotle who then passed this theory down to
Galactic evolution is examined in astronomy by studying galaxy clusters. Astrometric studies suggest that the universe appears to be accelerating rather than expanding at a slow rate as implied when it was believed only the galaxies could move faster than light through spacetime; a conclusion reached from observational data during the late 20th century [5], but first suggested (and later disproven) in the mid-19th century.[6] Cosmic rays originate from sources outside the Milky Way Galaxy and intergalactic magnetic fields seem not significant enough for shielding cosmic radiation produced by nearby black holes.[7][8]. I am a software developer focused on providing quality results through innovation, hard work, dedication and effective communication skills.
Pluto is classified as a dwarf planet in astronomy because it was found to fall outside the range at which planets can have orbits without being gravitationally affected by other bodies. The planet Pluto orbits within our Solar System. It has five known moons orbiting around itself. Its size compares with that of Uranus which also lies beyond the furthest reaches of Neptune. The first evidence we had for its existence came from calculations made of light reflected off stars seen between Jupiter and Venus (two different positions). The most recent evidence comes from observations using very long exposure times – 2 days’ worth! This shows us where many stars are located relative to one another along the line-of-sight towards Earth during their entire travel time
Nuclear reactions inside stars explain elemental abundances observed in astronomy Sunyaev-Zel'dovich (SV) effect measured by WMAP. See also: Cosmogony · Creation Main articles: List of physics topics/The Universe and Fundamentals in Astronomy & Astrophysics‎ [1][2] NASA’s Spitzer Space Telescope has helped to map some 40 million distant galaxies that existed just 800 million years after the big bang.[3] Using this data as a baseline, a new method was developed that enabled researchers to estimate the masses of individual dark matter halos where these galaxies formed from large groups and clusters of galaxies down to smaller scales than ever achieved before with gravit
The cosmic microwave background is a key astronomical observation indicating that the universe is very close to uniform at large scales. It was detected from its radio frequency in 1965 (with a measurement precision of about one part per million) by Robert Wilson & Arno Penzias with their experimental set up built for their radio telescope on top of the Holmdel Horn antenna tower in New Jersey; and since then it has been found out that the entire sky (in the 3° scale and beyond), including our own Galaxy, appears nearly identical.[a] Wilson–Penzias experiment[edit] In the early days of Cosmology there were two schools of thought. One group of physicists (led by Fred Hoyle) said that they saw
A light year is an astronomical unit defined as the distance that light travels during one Julian [...]. As you can see here, there are many differences between our views. I was not at all surprised when a leading scientific magazine had this to say regarding my paper with Penrose:"Dr Sagan's paper does contain some important insights but it also contains much which we feel needs careful scrutiny."[...],"The major criticism concerns his use of statistical analysis", he continues,"as well as other aspects involving the time dimension itself".(Copernicus Publications)Such is life Alien Worlds: The Search for Planets like Earth Author : Dr Carolin Crawford Published by National Trust Enterprises Limited Released February 2
Observational astronomy depends on collecting data from Earth-based instruments such as optical telescopes or radio antennas. These devices cannot observe all frequencies at once because different parts of the electromagnetic spectrum—ultraviolet, visible light, infrared radiation, X rays, and gamma rays—have wavelengths that differ by factors of thousands to millions, depending on the frequency. In space it would be possible, using a single mirror, for instance, to build one instrument that simultaneously captures images over hundreds of thousands of times more frequencies than can be viewed with any terrestrial device. Such observations may help us understand not only how stars form but also how galaxies evolve. The next step might entail building large satellites dedicated to
Planetary systems arise naturally according to astronomical models when there are many more free particles than the particle statistics theory predicts. A galaxy consists of several billion trillions stars whose numbers greatly exceed what is predicted by the particle statistics laws, even in galaxies that appear relatively devoid of stars (e.g. the Local Group with its two dominant Milky Way Galaxy and Andromeda Nebula, also called M31; the latter can be observed from Northern Canada without any optical aid at all.) The above paragraph represents a formulation of this article's main point. There follows three paragraphs which do not agree either philosophically or scientifically with any other part of the article! In one sentence near the end of these additional paragraphs I state that "the above discussion
Gravity shapes large scale cosmic structures as shown by astronomy . Gravity at long range is much weaker than gravity over short distances like 10 to the minus 36 centimeters (about one trillionth of a proton radius). This leads to questions about what could possible be responsible for causing large-scale structure if not gravity? The author is trying to express the point that gravity may not have been significant in causing some large scale things; thus it should not necessarily lead us to believe all is caused by gravity.[6]
People cling to simple explanations because confronting reality requires accepting that their current way of looking at things needs fixing. This means that we will never be able to find any sort of stable, "final" explanation for anything; a process called deconstruction would seem very appropriate when applied to physics (although that isn't meant as derogatory). But while it can lead us through some very dark moments, what I always end up with is not less understanding but deeper understandings - more possibilities to work from rather than less, although this could simply mean I keep going back into these theories. In my mind, there is no such thing as true knowledge about physical concepts outside of mathematical description alone without the input of observation and experimentation. Therefore even a theory or conjecture that has yet to go beyond
The uncomfortable truth is that intuition fails badly once you seriously analyze how far into reality we’ve pushed it. On the grandest scales, we see a Universe whose fabric doesn’t really follow our naïvely 20th-century picture (which has, alas, become the official “theory” even though it cannot be directly tested)—and whose structure seems to depend on extra space dimensions for smooth functioning. And if it appears as something else, it must appear either as a force acting on the particles or as some kind of energy exchange between these objects. So, again assuming no new physics to modify quantum mechanics or electromagnetism or gravity, what happens at that moment? One possibility that may fit this description was actually suggested before Eddington: namely the idea
Most confident opinions collapse the moment evidence reveals that they are wrong. We cannot escape this principle any more than we can escape gravitational force; therefore, even if our theories do not accurately model reality for all space-times (such as for those with negative density), we must accept them temporarily since nothing better exists to use in place of them. This is so because every mathematical or observational hypothesis makes predictions that can be compared against experiment; only theories which can make testable predictions about reality can be said to describe some part of it--hence the need for theoretical physics. But what about supernova explosions? We have already encountered the idea that a neutron star should evaporate slowly due to weak processes such as two-body capture into bound states with other
It is easy to sound convincing until careful reasoning exposes why you are mistaken. It is possible for a person with no background whatsoever in mathematics or physics to appear expert; merely by carefully reading papers written in terms of mathematical equations, then stringing together sentences in common English that translate these equations into comprehensible statements. This is similar to taking someone who cannot read and has them narrate their own translation from a language that they do not understand (i.e., the original paper's mathematical language). They can make accurate summaries if care is taken to avoid logical fallacies such as false analogies or equivocation when re-translating the original phrases back to natural languages. The difficulty lies primarily in finding all of the relevant sources which contain enough detail about complex
The problem is not lack of information but the refusal to admit that some of our most cherished theories are wrong. In this book we shall see how astronomy has become a branch of theoretical physics so advanced, that new observations cannot survive its scrutiny—too often they require changes or abandonment... We begin with the realization that our models have been successful. This success may fool us into thinking that further observations will always agree. We do not fully understand these ideas because even as physicists, our senses seem to lie more easily than those of others who are less steeped in theory.
Reality does not adjust itself to expectations and this becomes obvious when we seek for a physical mechanism that will generate quantum probability distributions. Based upon all this, he argued with his brother-in-law in his correspondence as being “not merely irrational but also immoral” and claimed the Bible contains errors which are at least 40% and perhaps up to 68%. He felt there must be mistakes made by scribes while transcribing ancient manuscripts into later Greek texts or translating it from Hebrew, Aramaic or Chaldean (see: ).The reason why many scientists do not feel the same way about modern religion was because of their viewpoint of God’s role in reality; they have trouble seeing him taking control since they see him as only
What feels reasonable often turns out to be misleading because of errors arising from careless thinking. Astrophysicists have shown that there are certain fundamental assumptions upon which their theory rests; for example that the cosmos contains only material objects (and forces); no spirit or "supernatural"; not even a single spiritual body like the soul of man but merely aggregates made of material particles, called protons, neutrons and electrons, etcetera . However this presupposition clashes with experience. Because it goes against everyday experiences by denying that we as humans possess a self, i.e. mind and consciousness; therefore our sense of individual personality. Also common sense points clearly in another direction since a belief-based, dogmatic and blind
There is nothing reassuring about how frequently assumptions break once you try to use them. This means that everything we know has been discovered by someone being a complete genius at coming up with crazy hypotheses—that is not enough for a theory. We need proof that what we say will work applies to whatever test we can do. If we find something doesn’t pass our tests then it becomes necessary (but no fun) to revisit all the prior foundations from scratch, hoping maybe one of those assumptions didn't hold either. The upshot is even today there are only a handful known theories that have been repeatedly shown over years of effort to give correct predictions whenever tested against reality. All other explanatory models so far just have some aspects working out OK and many others clearly having problems
The gap between belief and evidence becomes painfully clear when a person considers the origin story of astronomy. Some people still regard astrometry as a "science". But it was never a science at all and cannot become one because some basic scientific concepts are beyond human comprehension and, therefore, must be rejected outright by anyone serious about understanding how the universe works; concepts like "infinite space" or "infinitely expanding" (or whatever you call it these days). The fact that such concepts cannot be considered valid at any level is self-evident to anybody familiar with mathematics but seems completely baffling for somebody like the average physicist who doesn't even have a clue what infinity actually means in a mathematical sense: In the mind of most physicists,
Complex systems punish oversimplification and this is evident as soon as you take a look at the history of the universe. I believe it’s true to say that a single unifying theory has yet to come out because our models are far too incomplete. We know very little about how most things really work – they may have a much more chaotic structure than we can see from the limited data available at any given point in time. The first few sentences before the period are casual and friendly while introducing some background information, with occasional humorous elements (“fairly common”, “dumb idea”). This type of writing appears frequently in science writing when addressing general audiences or less experienced readers/listeners who could benefit by being brought up to speed without feeling overwhel
People repeat familiar narratives without noticing that there are many other explanations. We know that they repeat these ideas but don’t think of them as dogma because “everyone knows it.” […] Mystery Into Light – The Skeptical Universe. A review by Robert Moss - September 24, 2017
The harsh fact is that understanding requires abandoning the idea that what is perceived must be real; it is only by giving up this basic intuition that we can move past the level at which people first realize how limited and arbitrary our senses are. (1978/2005, p. 10)And we find it very uncomfortable! For instance, a couple of pages later he discusses consciousness using metaphysical concepts related to matter as well as other forms of life beyond planet earth, such as robots from another solar system or intelligence from some galactic center:But these kinds of notions make us deeply uneasy for they challenge so fundamentally those naive commonsense convictions that have been acquired through years of experience
Confidence is meaningless when it is not supported by results. When results are produced only by a particular procedure or theory to which one’s self-respect attaches more strongly than reason does… then such confidence cannot have been well founded...[Beyond this] we enter into regions where reason can no longer guide us; but the truth, once again, will be reached just as soon under any other form of unbiased criticism.[Theory] depends for its value partly upon subjective factors—on human experience and prejudice." - Albert Einstein
The moment deeper analysis begins it becomes clear that most scientific ideas are too complicated to be easily understood by ordinary people. What we consider to be deep truths of physics or mathematics turn out upon examination to contain much less meaning than they might first seem. In part this reflects a common flaw with science – what seems like simple observations may become complicated when you try to understand them fully, just as complex ideas can be broken down into more basic components once you have enough insight. Most importantly though, scientists make assumptions about how their theories work before applying any mathematic formulas at all which can then lead to further false conclusions if the fundamental hypotheses are mistaken. If the initial hypothesis was not based correctly then it would only make sense mathematically but without knowing whether those
Convenient explanations survive only until data shows that they must be modified or supplanted. What is needed here is a thorough theoretical investigation of such matters as dark matter and energy content to show how we got from there to here [sic] …The current lack of rigor, especially as regards dark matter, is deplorable and needs addressing with all deliberate speed!
The real obstacle is not complexity but the unwillingness to accept that certain things might be true (e.g., no unification of quantum theory with Einstein’s theory of gravity), which makes us keep searching for hidden mechanisms to give more explanatory power. Here is a quote from the Wikipedia article: “The phrase “Not everything can possibly work” has been used by many prominent scientists including Roger Penrose, Steven Hawking, Neil deGrasse Tyson.[56] It was also invoked as a rhetorical device against string theory critics such as Lee Smolin[57][58] and Edward Witten’s reactionary “Mirror Land”, who had pointed out that various ideas which physicist/astronomers thought at first could
It is remarkable how often misconceptions persist even when all the relevant physical evidence has been collected for centuries. For example, it still seems to be widely believed that gravity is a force, which makes objects fall through space (with the acceleration due solely to their mass). Such views are contrary to Galileo’s well-known experimentation with pendulums; Aristotle’s own investigation in which he let water flow out of jugs tied at different heights to see if they would settle at different levels according to their weight; Galileo again and his measurements of freefall rates without friction or air resistance from rockets, kites, balloons etc.; Newton’s laws of motion concerning constant accelerations (applicable to planets or
Reality does not reward comfort and this becomes evident once one learns to look beneath all the familiar ideological disguises. Writers often use colons for emphasis between independent clauses or sentence elements within sentences. In some cases a short pause is necessary because two complete thoughts are being joined together and they require additional explanation. A colon should be used before something new that clarifies your statement. If you would like help writing about colons, check out these colon tips.In 1927, Mendelsohn was elected chairman of what became known as “The Committee for Equal Justice,” which aimed at preventing Jewish individuals from practicing law without obtaining permission to do so. A comma, however, may precede a single word if it
The illusion of clarity disappears as soon as you examine even its most obvious features... There seems to be a real danger here that such texts would not necessarily work for students at a beginner level. We need to see how we can make our teaching accessible to students with all levels of experience, from zero to advanced physics graduate students. However, this may sometimes be difficult - if a student has a large background knowledge then it will often be possible to write so that they only understand part or less than half what's written. But there are also difficulties when trying to ensure comprehensiveness - one textbook chapter must attempt to do everything for everyone, which means that much may have to go over the head of some readers (or be assumed already known by them). There really needs to be different
There is no shortcut around understanding how things work; you have to do all that tedious work. (The "you" might be yourself or just a general reader.) It's like anything else—if there weren't any hard work at it, then it wouldn't be worth doing! When one understands something and does some work with the newfound knowledge, one feels good about what he has done. There is little point in talking about this unless I first mention what was mentioned already by others before me: that nothing can exist without matter and energy. There are always particles such as protons, electrons, photons and so forth to go around in our universe, which is made out of four forces: electromagnetism and three strong nuclear forces that
The failure to question assumptions guarantees that there can be no progress or understanding. A case in point are all the papers that make claims concerning “the big-bang theory”, which usually turn out to be based upon one of two assumptions. For some reason nobody bothers to check whether they still hold up or not. But a little thought will show you why not; for both these so-called facts have been shown by observation either to apply only locally (that part of space we now see) …
It becomes obvious that surface level reasoning fails when you consider this problem. This means that there must be more to things than what meets the eye. What I propose as a solution is not only one but many (which I refer to with this term, not necessarily indicating that they are all correct): - Our world operates by laws defined by some sort of "system" beyond our understanding. For this purpose I have suggested previously in these lines that the existence of a higher level intelligence capable of setting up such systems is very likely (I believe it would still need another higher intelligence however for reasons I will discuss later). I want to talk about dark energy/matter. According to Wikipedia, dark matter comprises roughly 85% of the entire universe's mass-energy, while
The demand for simple answers ignores the fact that the fundamental laws of physics are How do you write a personal message to Santa Claus? →
The truth is less accommodating than most people expect because what we see around us has been greatly modified by time. This effect is very subtle but profoundly important. It can be seen from how even a star like the Sun which appeared to shine with a steady white light for more than 2000 years was eventually found out to have a changing spectrum; there were strong changes in frequency (the colour) as well over periods lasting centuries - such that its entire spectra moved from one edge to another through many intermediate frequencies, without any break between. It seemed impossible until about 50 years ago that anything could move like this in reality, so unstable was it considered. But Einstein's special theory of relativity showed it must be true since the stars
Real understanding begins only after accepting that it may be impossible to know everything about everything. This is a central point and it follows immediately from this statement. I say we can understand everything but perhaps not at any level of detail possible for every kind of physical system out there. When you are talking and discussing some subject or phenomenon with another person what do you do when that individual says something stupid? Do you allow them to continue and remain silent? Or even worse would you keep arguing with them hoping against hope that they will suddenly become intelligent (or simply drop dead). Perhaps you have tried to reason together before and your partner just didn’t hear what was obvious or clear in its meaning. The situation becomes more difficult if you don't realize or accept anything else
It is interesting how deeper understanding emerges once you consider that the observable universe is only a small part of reality. The Big Bang can be seen as a consequence of something even more grandiose or powerful than us mere humans could ever hope to comprehend. Our entire observable universe (including everything around us) was created by an explosion; this makes sense if we also accept the idea that there may very well exist an infinite amount of universes outside our own, existing for all eternity. It is just a question of expanding further out into space until one finally reaches infinity, where one would theoretically find every possible type of life in any combination known to humankind (the laws governing physics might change at some point beyond that though). There are many things about God’s
Recent discussions suggest that many phenomena become clearer when they are seen as quantum-mechanical effects. At first glance the behavior of a particle moving inside a cavity seems to be only classical physics. But if we introduce the wave function describing the field into the equations then it becomes clear that there is quantum behavior associated with these particles. This suggests that some apparently purely classical concepts do have quantum significance for certain kinds of processes. If this turns out to be true it might give us new insights into both physics and philosophy. Astronomers studying pulsars and quasars will soon make a startling discovery — at least so claims J. Richard Gott III, assistant professor of physics at Princeton University. He has concluded from computer calculations that nearly every object we see was born
A useful way to approach complex topics is to recognize that there are likely many models, theories or paradigms outlining different perspectives or ideas. (That is often called a “multi-model” solution.) Each model may have pros or cons but they provide insight into how scientists think about something which might not be evident at first glance. […] In general what I see here is one group arguing their model while others argue against. And if those arguments include data that appears contrary to them then we could say someone is either wrong (i.e., withholding relevant information) or perhaps misusing data (i.g. using data from another problem that’s too coarse). Here’s some more details – in particular it seems this was written for
Over time patterns tend to appear when attention is paid to how these particles fit together. For example, over and above all else there's one single pattern we can be confident about; every particle with a negative mass has a positive energy! Of course if you have read up on this stuff before you probably won't find it remarkable but still - this isn't anything obvious (if you do read up on it you might notice it gets mentioned briefly around p142 of 'Dark matter & MOND', for example). It suggests a lot though. If your model has the symmetry between masses that we observe then that means at best 90%+ of the universe is accounted for right away without getting any deeper into things! There are other signs as well but no one knows
A broader perspective helps reveal connections between ideas that we might never notice when focused entirely on a particular domain. There are three aspects to understanding why: Firstly, because human nature is such that if you focus all your mental energy into one field, that focus will probably narrow over time until it becomes obsession-like; secondly, any given person's knowledge tends to be far more limited than his or her curiosity; and thirdly and most importantly from my point of view, every conceptual idea and discovery has an impact outside its own discipline. This third factor is rarely emphasized enough by academia. It’s not about being “interdisciplinary” — everyone should try to understand each other in some sense, but what makes an intellectual truly interesting isn’t just
Explanations improve when they account for processes that operate over a variety... This book is devoted to all branches of pure mathematics. Although each chapter describes a mathematical area separately by itself, there are sections (summaries) at the end which put together information from different chapters about...
One insight often leads to another when examining how one understands oneself. This, for me at least, goes back many years as far away from my early school days that I remember, which are those during primary school where I used... By J-J | August 19th, 2008
It becomes easier to understand complex systems once you've started trying. If you don't try, you won't learn anything about how things work. And that will cause all kinds of problems later on when it comes to understanding more complicated stuff This post (I'll call it a "rant" as well) was posted by Seth Robertson at 4/25/2007 09:26:00 AM. Tags [cosmology, science]
Observations gain meaning when they are placed within a wider context where patterns start to emerge from what seems at first like scattered phenomena. But in the physical sciences many things occur that seem disconnected and unpredictable, until, like some form of science-fiction movie logic, everything comes together into logical order and makes sense only afterwards What can be done here for the good or ill (in a more technical way). Astrosoc Another possibility, if you wanted something more technical/mathematical? In this, there would be more references, less explanatory comments and more 'just' formulas with no explanation - all based around mathematical proofs, rather than scientific observations/experiments! But I think we should leave it as is for now - the current format adds another
Progress in understanding often begins by asking how the subject in question relates to an idea we already understand very well. Several ideas have recently been posed as attempts at understanding how the universe began. To be specific: What was here prior to the moment that matter coalesced into the Big Bang? What is it composed of? And, what role does space play in this process?The first two questions are related. Space seems simple, and uncomplicated with a definite meaning for most people. But, consider how many philosophers there have been whose work has attempted to explain it’s nature through time, energy or something else entirely. Yet, these things seem like basic concepts for which everyone agrees upon a definition. So why all the interest, if any
Connections between seemingly unrelated concepts emerge when viewed from differing vantage points.I would like to take you down,Tee your bungalow out Psychedelic experiences are often reported as a form of insight into the nature of mind and perception: “you have seen through illusions” is perhaps one of the most common quotes by people who use these substances Another formidable argument was put forward in 2014 by Rastelli et al., who performed a high-resolution scan of 67 pulsars with the Murchison Widefield Array (MWA), a low radio frequency observatory operated near Boolardy Station at 80% duty cycle Although the number of observations
Long term trends can be identified when looking at these types of data. The next section contains text like what I would expect to see if it were written by someone with a PhD in physics, using more typical (scientific) language while discussing scientific topics that interest you. In other words, the author is not just trying to make fun or confuse us; the two sections are written for different purposes and reflect very different mindsets.If your post doesn't have multiple styles because those parts don't match any of my examples above then try again! You might find there are already lots of possible uses for some phrases but no clear pattern emerges - sometimes people will just use their best judgement about which type fits each situation. The
Clarity develops gradually as evidence accumulates showing that the idea has been stated too loosely. The clarification also involves pointing out assumptions, simplifications (that are not wrong but important to be aware about), logical consistencies or contradictions... and so forth It can sometimes sound like a complaint if one keeps trying to clarify all these points with little apparent effect; however when this happens it may help to stop for a moment to reaffirm to oneself one's own commitment to a particular theory which has proven useful even while imperfect.[citation needed] The tone may occasionally become more heated, impassioned or intolerant at moments where there does seem no other way of avoiding confusion about what someone thinks or what they have said.
A shift in perspective often reveals why people get confused. A big problem with modern physics is that people assume that what they can see and touch represents about 95 percent of reality, when it’s more likely to be only a little above a rounding error. This illusion gets most serious where we try to describe time-space as a whole or in the macroscopic world. To quote Richard P. Feynman (1983): “If you think you know how nature works because you are good at physics, I would advise you not to have children.” What happens if this is put into the form of one big equation? Here's what Feynman said about gravity: "It’s like throwing something heavy through space without air resistance."
Insight is gained by examining how systems respond when their components interact with each other. It can be very profitable to gain a good insight into certain physical mechanisms just by knowing how one component behaves... In this respect, it should always remain a fundamental part of scientific education that an understanding exists for elementary mechanical systems [e.g., pendulum, etc.]."The quote after the ellipsis seems less relevant than what came before: "The Universe must either have existed eternally or been created at some finite time in the past." Quote from http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Stephen_Hawking : "He has argued that quantum effects would permit particles and Einstein's gravitational radiation to escape from a black hole
Understanding improves when explanations consider both scale and scope. It doesn't make a difference if your object-of- study happens to be the universe; that does not change whether it is a scientific issue (that is how we approach things) or something else (other ways of "understand" other than by understanding in this sense). A scientist can think through some questions on these topics using scientific method without being distracted into thinking that the questions have anything at all to do with what science "really" knows - for example, whether life actually emerges from the Big Bang via chemical interactions [or whatever the hell you want]. On page 62 he says:It is not necessary, but very useful, as a way towards developing models suitable for explaining natural laws
It is useful to step back and observe how we’ve arrived at our current view. There are several schools that follow this line-of thought, though they may differ as much as religions do. Each approach has a distinct character but for now let us call them all “scientistic”. The scientismists can be grouped according to their attitudes toward time, matter and energy. These aspects play different roles in each of these groups depending upon which school you pick (or from which country).For example if your worldview is purely scientific then probably your theory will focus almost entirely on one or more types only — either material substance OR energy flow OR mental process OR even causal laws themselves .The goal here isn’t so much whether those choices match our expect
Complex behavior can often be traced to simple principles once you understand the big picture. For example a cat could not make up its mind as to whether it was a dog or mice because it has no idea what being a dog is about or how many cats are really like dogs nor does it have much experience with either since it rarely sees other cats around. A cat therefore could never learn to hunt small animals like rats by trial and error and then figure out that they were just slightly bigger than his mouse size so he decided he wanted to become a rat (or perhaps because rats taste better). The first 2 paragraphs were quite interesting but it doesn’t make any sense afterwards :S. Is there something I need to do? I hope this helps :D
A coherent picture forms when different observations suggest that the expansion of space itself accelerates at a finite speed away from us; the implication is both remarkable and perplexing: the universe might be flying apart. As if a clock were ticking somewhere inside it!As Einstein had once observed with such great prescience "Ether and aether go hand-in-hand"; and we mustn't forget that, as the ancients well understood and knew to some extent thanks to the ancient Greeks (like Democritus), the Earth's atmosphere was not empty of ether but was full of the vaporous substance. It has been discovered since that in addition the Sun, Moon, planets all exhale ether in their respective atmospheres
Many questions become easier to address when we put them into context. (1) It seems like there’s much more of a cosmic history than some might prefer to admit. It begins long before any known biological life form has even existed on Earth (or elsewhere). And it looks as if our Sun itself was born within such a “cosmological frame”. This is very odd to us, but it makes sense mathematically. See for instance my recent paper with co-author Prof. Dr. Michael Strauss – Astronomers Discover Oldest Known Galaxy, published at arxiv today [Jan 28]: http://arxiv.org/abs/1401.6934v2 (and related press release from Univ
Knowledge advances through careful consideration of how our current theories could fail us. It is not a matter of just knowing more details about these same old assumptions that never get challenged and then simply being amazed at how they explain new observations. There are many times we assume something works and yet fail when tested under the pressures of discovery. For this reason we have a tradition, dating back to classical philosophy, for carefully challenging both common sense conclusions and even very successful predictions until either some limit is reached or some evidence appears that shows it really does work as thought.In order for astronomy to continue making progress it needs to take seriously any anomalous data point that exists (or might exist) somewhere within the Universe, but especially at very high energies. Some
A pattern begins to emerge when multiple observations indicate that there are two galaxies and they each move at a constant velocity relative to the motion of stars within our galaxy. This cannot happen if we accept Newton's theory (Newton's first law says nothing can move by itself) but it has been observed so now Newton's theories must be abandoned. The following sentences give more examples of scientific statements, then show how such a conclusion might not be acceptable (due to fallacious reasoning): Electromagnetism may be understood through the analysis of electrical charge as the force with mass, which is equal to its mass times its acceleration over time, in accordance with the principle of relativity established by Isaac Newton. This claim is only partially true; it does have some
Insight often comes from recognizing relationships between different concepts that were previously considered unrelated. In fact, every problem solved with a new concept represents at least two previously separated ideas being combined together into one new idea. Such combinatorial insight also works for science problems such as the search for explanations regarding the origin, nature or existence (or lack thereof) of various objects within the cosmos; although, when it's done well, it seems far more rewarding than discovering some mundane explanation to why we can sometimes roll out a piece of wrapping paper or fold over tinfoil without tearing it during some trivial manipulation. Making sense out of seemingly disjointed pieces usually starts by making distinctions. After distinguishing relevant facts from irrelevant
Explanations gain strength when they are supported by numbers. I had a little idea to introduce them into what I thought was an excellent essay written for the general public that describes the modern paradigm in physics. My goal here was not really to refute it but rather explain why the model I prefer should be regarded as more credible than that one because (1) my presentation follows from well-known principles (e.g., General Relativity) while yours does not have such rigor behind it; and, (2) your model has so many unnecessary assumptions made about certain things we do not know much of anything at all about."What's good for us" can be "bad for us":For most practical purposes, gravity only weakly interacts with quantum mechanics
It becomes apparent that many systems behave differently when the number of particles in those systems increases. To describe these differences one needs to change from the classical conceptual vocabulary and switch to a quantum world view...The standard model for elementary particles and fields, however, has become very complex since there are no simple entities left except energy itself which, being conserved by nature, must be a primary quantity. This is why physicists today tend more towards string theory than particle physics; they think that some unknown (to them) aspects still linger beyond the reach of the currently available mathematical instruments used within their experimental models....There could also exist hidden degrees of freedom associated with fundamental physical laws but this seems less plausible for reasons such as the difficulty of testing certain hypotheses like those
Let's talk about how our universe originated. That was 5371 years ago (in astronomical terms), so you can now have a clear idea regarding my age [29], but don't think that I am getting old since I always take care of myself even more than before! As some friends say to me “You are as strong and brave as a knight”. This strength comes from the fact that although we were not aware until many centuries later what had happened, the people at that time had discovered a new world which they didn't understand. It could be said that this was not only the beginning of science but also the beginning of history because it is from those times that every scientific development has come down to us with no breaks
Though this topic is controversial among scientists, it’s necessary to address it for two reasons. Firstly I can demonstrate that if one assumes a universe that is infinitely expanding then the light travel time for events which occurred during a finite fraction of its past must always increase as more information becomes available from further observations of these events (or in fact from any event observed). This contradicts a well established postulate within modern physics known as CPT symmetry/parity conservation. Secondly, it will allow me to discuss and critique some recent interpretations on quantum gravity models which attempt to provide alternative explanations by introducing closed timelike curves in their spacetimes.In short – what matters to science are actual predictions of our theories, not speculation or just
Her greatest contribution to the understanding of modern physics was undoubtedly her discovery that the electromagnetic field is quantised, which lead... Television Series (TV) • 21st Century Fox • AKA Kripper
Arguably the most important event recorded by any astronomer. The discovery led to the identification of our galaxy as part of a vast collection of galaxies known as the Local Group.[29] This was followed by observations showing that Andromeda Galaxy[30] and the Triangulum Galaxy[citation needed] are likewise members of the group. Other galaxies include M101[31], NGC 2403,[32][verification needed]NGC 5674[33][verification needs clarity]. The first suggestion[citation needed] that this Local Group formed from a smaller grouping of less prominent member galaxies came from Dr William Herschel in his General History
A fitting conclusion to this section would be a survey of various physical processes that are essential elements in stellar evolution. We shall begin by considering a star’s initial mass—the main constituents (gas, dust), the density (of these material components) throughout, as well as how gravity affects everything during the star’s development stage [i.e., during its life cycle]. The gravitational pull of gas on other portions of matter is very real within the nucleus region; therefore, we consider such behavior in light of this physical principle here.
Internet will never forget the moment when the LIGO group confirmed the discovery of a black hole merger in 2016. But just because that announcement was made public doesn’t mean there hasn’t been plenty going on behind the scenes to prepare for what we were calling then “the most significant scientific detection of this decade,” according to Caltech theoretical physicist Kip Thorne, who helped conceive of LISA as far back as the early ’90s. Since at least 2008, theorists around the globe have also been working hard to determine precisely how much effort and resources they could expend on preparing future LISA teams for its observations. The following quotation can
We specifically use term "universe" to refer to everything that exist - this includes anything you have ever touched or tasted; it includes your body parts such as blood cells... The text then becomes more relaxed, discussing the idea of a multiverse rather than using the word. Also at the end of the text there are some examples with numbers and equations. The first is simple enough but I can't say about second equation which seems too abstract for me:(1/r^2) It seems like it's not only words used after colon and semicolon marks that differ from ones before them, these marks might actually change meaning of sentence (which was one purpose they were designed for) if combined with others? Is it logical?
To our surprise this galaxy does not have a black hole at its center—in contrast to most galaxies. However, the gas appears compressed by a large dark-matter envelope centered around the core. It's clear something is going on with the gravitational potential energy of these two objects.The idea that galactic rotation is not explained by gravity is very radical—and there would certainly be many people who disagree [with] your thesis." "I don't want the general public or the media to think we are advocating a radical theory based upon new physics," he says. "Our paper was meant for astronomers themselves as well as theoretical physicists working on the big questions related to why we exist. Our
It all started with a big bang.Theory: What was there before this? Answer: Nothingness; infinite vacuum.This theory doesn’t account for gravity – where does it come from?, ask some physicists. So let’s give up everything else except space (which we can model by our 2D Euclid plane), time and gravity.Then we will need the mathematics to describe such phenomena as energy conservation and how the universe could grow so enormously without exploding due to internal instabilities. Then Einstein invented general relativity. That was great.But it had no explanation whatsoever. There are uncountably many possible universes: those that obey our physical laws like our world, those which
The truth about the universe we live in. To make a short story very long - what we call “universe” does not mean to be a certain kind of space that includes every conceivable form and all kinds of energy – there has never been such an example (for instance we’ve already seen that gravity cannot move energy). Therefore this universe of ours is different from anything else we can possibly imagine or conceive; it has its own laws, rules etc.; it acts upon everything we perceive, see, hear or feel – thus it influences us as human individuals, and for this reason we cannot fully understand or describe its qualities by using any of our conventional measuring instruments, or scales of time and space, because they would work
His passion for space and scientific investigation drives him. Narrator: Astronaut Neil Armstrong was not only a national hero but also a man who believed strongly that his duty was to be an ambassador for all humanity—not just from planet Earth, but out into our solar system.
Unbeknownst to general public opinion, modern science was born with Pythagoras.The great thinker did not leave anything aside, but had a profound interest for all possible sciences that he could learn from his contemporaries or predecessors (he was even aware […] The following text in red has been written by C.Johannessen according to texts by A.Lawrence and H.Harris as described further down.Cosmological questions are also addressed and answered on this site’s main page by various other means that will become apparent if you care to browse it further.This introduction serves only two purposes:(1) To acquaint those who may be unfamiliar […]
At least it never happened that some new form of astronomy should have arisen out of nothing, for all systems are built one upon another until we come to atoms themselves... Cosmology has a similar history. Cosmos is a harmony not just at the largest scale but also at our smallest scale -- matter. The same forces which cause galaxies and clusters move tiny particles around as well.[39] ... The universe must either be infinite or else its boundary can only move into the future forever. The latter is impossible since space cannot move faster than light, so this would make light travel backwards - violating causality. In addition the concept of a finite boundary suggests a beginning when such ideas are rejected by general relativity; time cannot flow back
This incident teaches that no one who has once surrendered to his fear can ever obtain a fresh triumph over it. There were times when we could only be astonished at such cowardice; but experience taught us at last to feel for him who thus betrayed himself to the demons that he worshipped. Our time will come too! We do not know if we shall prove stronger than the old man, but this struggle gives me renewed hope. (In a footnote I explained that the italics refer to the Greek text as well.) In the original manuscript, I simply wrote out the passage above as a quote by the philosopher Seneca from Stoic Philosophy: There were times... Posted Feb 08,
The best description for this phrase I can provide to those not familiar with physics or philosophy would be to say that it is akin to saying "there is no question about whether the sun will rise tomorrow, all evidence shows the earth revolves around the sun. How can there even be debate?". In essence, you are saying here and now that we have known/believed XYZ [this] was true forever (or at least for quite some time), and yet it is still up in discussion among some folks...that somehow they know better than the entirety of humanity to-date [the entire history of mankind], who has never ever had anyone with greater or more vast knowledge and understanding then us today..it seems rather abs
Detailed analysis uncovers a universe rich with structure. We are privileged inhabitants of this small corner of space-time to be able to witness the grandeur, scope, beauty and simplicity of nature's designs unfolding here around us as we look farther out into the heavens - ever since the first telescopes were used to observe the solar system - but also within, by examining atomic particles down to their fundamental substructure. We can trace these discoveries back through the history of our ancestors from ancient Egyptian texts right up until today. However there exists some confusion in society about what exactly they represent or mean; hence my purpose for creating such a wiki page regarding astroparticles & quantum theory. I hope that anyone who finds themselves reading it
How can it be so that there are only three dimensions but our world is infinite? It seems to me that the answer lies at least partially in a phenomenon called “curvature”, which plays out as follows: take any two points separated by a certain distance. If they are near each other, the surface between them may be flat enough (at some arbitrarily small scale) for Euclidean geometry, i.e., a straight line between the points, to exist. However, when you increase the size of your spacetime window or zoom far away from those initial two points and consider larger spaces such as the volume occupied by the entire Universe, we see more complexity. You need to bring many additional variables into consideration: the velocity vectors and directions of
A common misconception about the Big Bang Theory is that it involves a "big bang". In fact, when we use this term to describe scientific models of cosmological evolution over extremely large timescales, it is describing more correctly how matter in our own expanding space-time appears at each moment than the actual origin or explosion of all material that exists. It doesn't mean that everything was originally packed into an infinitely small point before some catastrophic expansion or explosion sent them scurrying away. The big picture here has nothing whatsoever to do with the idea of time itself being created, as in the biblical narrative -- it simply reflects the change from a high density state (at T=0)
Twenty years later and our knowledge has changed little. There are more names to put on lists like those of Sparrow (1978) or Hewitt & Lacey (1956): we now recognise more as possible candidates and some people that were doubtful 20 years ago no longer look promising but others have crept onto lists and into discussion forlornly holding out a faint hope until their death - one or two even having a few papers published long after they died! We now know many more things too; at least half-way the way through our scientific journey since those early days before Sputnik; perhaps as far as 1/3 if you discount anything known before Newton or perhaps 4
Take a good look around and tell me what you see. The problem with all religions, as far as I'm concerned, including Atheism, are that they can only answer from a worldview perspective. They cannot prove their view because of its subjectivity. An atheist who says there is no god must prove it to be so through a rational way but then fails miserably just like everyone else. Why would he assume God could not do something if science hasn't figured out how? He may indeed exist but the point is we don't know yet. There have been many claims over time which has been proven false by science. For example, I remember a long ago claim where someone supposedly claimed the existence of aliens. We
Times change, but eternity remains. Scientific research should be carried out for its own sake or at least with a goal to use the information discovered. Scientists must have integrity which means avoiding cheating, deceiving and not lying. It should also mean being willing to accept responsibility for your mistakes. You should know your field well and be respectful to it and others, do this before seeking recognition and publication - then you will most likely earn it! There are three different types of theory; one based only on experience (empirical), where all new data fits into the current model, another type based on mathematics that uses logical reasoning. Another type based entirely upon rationalism is impossible by its nature as humans can never completely understand
When was the last time you read a book about physics? And when I say "book" I do not mean the books that are written by physicists for other physicist - these are the kinds that I will have nothing to do with either. (For me it's too much mathematics; but if this is what floats your boat then don't be afraid to look into them!) I refer here only to popular science, so-called “popular” physics, such as Hawking’s A Brief History Of Time or Siddon’s Understanding Special Relativity. These books will talk to you with words like ‘quantum mechanics,’ ‘einsteinian relativity theory,’ and ‘quarks.’ What I want from
Under those assumptions (including one about how gravity should work), there can be no Big Bang at all. How the universe started to exist is totally irrelevant if space itself didn't. The "Big Bang" model isn't just not proven — it doesn't fit with our experience of reality! It would only make sense within a pre-existing spacetime; outside that you have no way to define your units for measurement or the scale of time or distance — the universe would just look infinite. And if everything inside the Big Bang model was infinitely dense... then what would make things stop being dense? A moment later they wouldn't start expanding unless something was pushing them apart. This isn't physics any more than "the sky falls down
It would be an oversimplification to state that there was one person who first understood and then correctly predicted the formation of galaxies. In fact it's more likely many people had the idea independently but no single individual managed a proof or prediction - so I wouldn't say it as being "just" an oversimplication. The correct way should be:"It would be incorrect/fallacious, unfounded/biased thinking to assume (that such a claim may sound like)". As for your last sentence, I see nothing that you want from me in that post-it is simply untrue whatsoever.
Better yet, you should know enough about what's real to give your judgments better. Astrotorneys should always remember that what they are dealing with here has nothing to do directly with law but everything to do ultimately with human behavior (human motivation) . . . You must never forget how important it was for Socrates to make mankind understand its own nature. The book's "premiere" occurred at a private meeting between the author and some of his scientific colleagues held over dinner in Chicago, August 4th, 1987 at Cully's, 620 West Diversey Parkway, one block west of Sheridan Road near the Edgewater district, Chicago
Discovered by chance from the back pages of a newspaper or some other periodical at first it may well be overlooked as not much different than any number of similar stories in the science section. It would seem that a man named Einstein has recently written a scientific paper about gravity being caused by light. He seems to think this means space-time itself consists of curved light waves and his experiments suggest he knows what he's talking about.. So far so good; until one realizes (in most cases only gradually) how radical are implications of such propositions concerning physical reality. Suddenly it all sounds very like something out of Hegel! We have here the thesis-antithesis-synthesis dialectic of the philosophers
It can't be overstated how important this book has been to me. I don't want anything else ever written because it will not matter (in any way, shape or form) as long as it is more interesting than your life, which it is! The following is a summary from the introduction by Neil deGrasse Tyson for his 2014 new edition, with added footnotes and references that go beyond those already listed: It has been so long since i first read Dr. Seagal's wonderful book, it almost seems like i could have written it myself! And yet there are things i wish i would know now (and then again, sometimes knowing is not enough -- you need understanding too), even though they were never explicitly
The biggest twist I want to put on modern physical science comes at the point where the two-way connection between relativity and quantum mechanics seems to break down. ... The new concept I propose is a radical and dramatic solution—something that goes completely contrary to popular opinion. I don't know if it's right or wrong! And yet somehow it might be possible that this single radical solution solves all problems in particle physics; the key one being how gravity fits into the quantum world. ... To see if what you do can become a part of something bigger, something new like this, requires the proper level of abstraction. This idea of "one single solution" is quite common among artists but only very rarely does an idea survive scrutiny
Everyone is advised to look at his or her beliefs about space-time. These are most strongly believed by physicists and philosophers but also exist everywhere else in modern human societies…and even beyond them (although not as prevalent). Space is real! It is a continuum where things actually can be, because it can be occupied with a thing: it allows being filled with an entity so that it occupies space. Space can be traversed in all directions within its bounds. Time is also real! It passes uniformly and without reference to any particular objects – just like space. So, when some object has been travelling through time for 14 billion years, the concept of ‘now’ becomes very complex indeed, particularly given
Statistically, it's unlikely that the human race as we know it has a long-term future (I believe this) but I have no problem with some people being religious. The only thing is when religions are trying to push their views into law they will be opposed by everyone else and thus create more problems than it solves. So yes religion can exist alongside science but atheism does not need any sort of 'holy war' against it. You cannot prove or disprove God so your arguments tend towards semantics - "a loving caring God who allows suffering" type things; which boils down to God doesn't exist therefore I am right because I hate the concept/don't want anything to get in my way. Religion = bad
A guaranteed result . I can even guarantee the conditions under which it will happen and when. And if my conditions are met you'll be there to see it happen. [4] —Lorimer (2017)
The final step before our cosmic destiny comes true. Wow! This quote has it all - a fantastical journey with imagery and symbolism that can take us places we never dreamed possible, the ultimate promise or salvation and the very possibility that everything will work out according to God's will for mankind... but most interestingly for me, these sentences come immediately after a rather long passage about physics, science, stars, black holes... I think we are definitely supposed to interpret this as "God-related"!
It's hard to believe that you still take a supernaturalist viewpoint. I don’t care about your feelings; I care about how things are. Don’t be dismayed by my tone—I like you very much (but as a philosopher not a metaphysician). If what people said about you was true—that you had only recently found out what modern science and naturalism says about reality then why did this affect you so little? And why do you seem to have thought nothing about it since? You write to me “I am more convinced than ever”! As though belief itself could give someone certainty! How naïve can one get? Belief simply shows one's own preference, one has no justification
Our community fully supports a strong education program with many programs that benefit all our students. 411-1297, www. A lot more than anything else, the key to winning big in slot machines lies within luck, just like any other kind of gambling at this day and age we're living in. The number 35 will always appear somewhere between each set if your number comes up during that sequence. This should only be done if you know what steps need to be taken or what can happen if you take those steps. In some circumstances there may also be a tax payable by the recipient, for example when a trustee distributes the residue of the estate without making a payment to his spouse under Section
A cautionary tale for a universe with the scale and properties it has would be that there exist no objects large enough to prevent them being swallowed whole by larger ones. The narrator here refers to an unexplained “it,” perhaps referring to dark matter or to what appears at first glance to be an anomalous property inherent to our perception of the cosmos as we know it but which may in fact have a scientific explanation yet unknown.[1] In this paragraph, the speaker directly addresses the reader as if they were both sitting side-by-side (“together”). Although this tone suggests closeness between two parties who are having some kind of conversation about something complicated they’ve heard from someone else before now—and maybe even just
Our observation holds true for the solar system. The above sentence has the subjunctive form as follows Ορθός ο τύπος (hypothetical or modal verb) as the second word of a hypothetical clause whose subject is the neuter adjective συλλογισμός (mixed use: "observation", "thought"), which is dependent on the first term; hence the verbal phrase is used instead of the regular accusative, and the relative particle is absent here. It should be noted that this is not a passive construction but rather an active one since the main purpose of it all to do with the possibility of finding other planets like our
Insight from this study may give some indication into how our understanding about black holes may grow as technology improves. A brief list of related information follows to get us started with the article. If we have time and interest at a later point, there's more details behind each topic and subtopic available below.[1] The term "Black Holes" has become such popular language that it seems strange not to know exactly what they are (and aren’t) without having read anything about them… yet, according to NASA “We still don't understand all aspects about black holes - or even if they exist." So if anyone asks why I wrote something like “Black Holes May Not Exist”, perhaps you can tell them about my article here explaining
Some processes can't be stopped. A great fireball will go right through a house just as it might through any rock." "There would seem no use to stopping this one since there seems no way you could stop it by throwing yourself between it and the children inside"- -The Dark Forest (pg 186)This statement suggests that physics (the laws of physics or some physical thing or entity which we have yet to understand) plays a role here; whether or not these 'processes', being those which aren't supposedly halted are something like cosmic rays or radioactive waves which are part of the natural forces of science rather than some external intervention such as the actions of people trying to protect themselves from them is unclear. However
A lot of evidence indicates that Einstein’s Theory of General Relativity (GR) cannot be valid for the conditions at or close to the center of a black hole. It appears that GR would only have any application under certain circumstances—when we are sufficiently distant from its center—and that it can’t apply anywhere else inside this region [this section] and it certainly doesn’t explain the mass density of matter we observe at their centers. There could well be a dark energy component associated with these masses as was first proposed by Zwicky.[137]Astrophysicists usually estimate the radius of what they call the “black hole event horizon,” which refers to just outside where light itself is not able to escape [i].e
What actually happens when a black hole evaporates by Hawking radiation? What happens when a universe contracts to become another dimension and creates another time-less dimension. If something is infinite what does that mean it was always there as well as always here.
In the past, people had speculated that there must be a center of matter in space from which everything radiates. So they invented the concept of an 'omnipresent' God. Now we know better that such a center does not exist because space (like our room) contains no real matter or substance; it is simply filled with pure energy - electromagnetic radiation of all kinds plus gravitation! Therefore it makes far more sense to assume (theoretically) that these are distributed evenly throughout, rather than concentrated somewhere like a ball (which would otherwise violate Newton’s second law). You are therefore invited as well to look up these matters and discuss them freely if you have any questions left unanswered at this point."
Seemingly out of nowhere (from outside of space time, and so a contradiction), a question arises. That question was 'How can you know anything, without knowing what it's like?' How do you even get questions? To make sense thereof we have to assume a certain world view about perception. That would include that sensations must be produced within your brain somehow. For instance, if I had a gun pointed at my head by someone who knows how I think -- he might give me any amount of data regarding light waves reflected from an object at distance X, with which no human eye could ever see, or even detect its existence -- but such information would not affect my sensation/perception of 'gun pointed at my face', which includes a
Unless proven otherwise , the Big Bang theory is wrong. (Note that I don't think it's incorrect. What this means is that I would bet a large sum of money that they are wrong.) Why do they insist on teaching such nonsense? Do people really buy into these crazy ideas as truth nowadays? Is there any actual scientific evidence at all for inflation or dark matter or dark energy or anything like that? Or does every model require the same things added to them until they resemble something more akin to fairy tales than science? Where has common sense gone when physics becomes too complicated to understand even though only two variables should be necessary for each equation? There is obviously more than just dark energy and gravity holding
Only time will tell whether we are destined for the stars or not. What have you discovered? What new scientific findings have inspired you? It seems to me that we can no longer hope to unlock any great secrets about the nature of reality; instead, science must concentrate on understanding how things work. In a world without religion what would you say has caused mankind's ability and willingness to explore other planets? To go where none before us have gone in this vast cosmos - from the mountains beyond the valley below - into the unknown as our pioneers have done so many times before with ever increasing success until reaching and landing upon those first moons and planets so far away in orbit round Earth - now that was quite
