Looking at the stars feels like the universe casually showing off its best lights. We're clearly not the center of it all, but we can make pretty pictures by looking where the stars actually are rather than where they should be (based on our centricity delusions). And then he adds some snarky comments about how scientists who use such observations to argue for a flat Earth must have terrible data or poor mathematics skills.
Black holes sound scary until you realize even they follow elegant cosmic rules. In particular, their mass, size and spin are determined by simple formulas, which allow us to estimate their properties from their names (e.g. a $10^9 Msun$ black hole has a volume of about $4 x 10E58 meters^3$, weighs about $4 x 10E6 Msun$ and spins nearly at the maximum allowed rate).
The night sky is basically physics putting on a glitter show for free. It's like God says, "Here I have this great big canvas; let them paint it any way they want." Each civilization gets to describe the painting that goes with its cultural meme (or myth). And as far as we can tell, every culture has painted something different!
It is oddly comforting that gravity keeps everything dancing in orbit so reliably, even though we humans have done our best to upset things. We see evidence for the existence of a graviton, but it has never been observed, which puts us in good company (assuming there is a planet-sized hole in your universe)..."
Stars forming in dusty clouds feels like space quietly building new lanterns, one by one. In this cold dark corner of the universe some far away sun is born; its light will never reach us, but we can hear its song! And there are many more songs to listen to, hidden deep inside that cloud of gas and dust...
Every galaxy is just the universe experimenting with new spiral designs. It's as simple as that! But there are important exceptions to this rule, which may be failures of the uniform-university hypothesis. Such galaxies have little or no evidence of a nuclear bar or ring; their disks look more like the edge-on views of Quasars or Globular Clusters.
Exoplanets remind us that the cosmos has more variety than any sci fi writer could imagine. This diversity extends to the mean distances of planets from their host stars, with separations ranging from 0.01 AU (Mercury) to > $1 R_sun$ (Pluto)...The discovery of the first extra-solar planet changed everything, because it forced us to accept that such disparities arise naturally.
Redshift is just the universe’s way of waving at us from far away. It tells us that space is stretching like an elastic skin between two enormous masses, and the mass we see directly cannot be the whole story. There must be another mass out there which we do not yet see (or perhaps cannot see). That other mass could well be me!
Even cosmic expansion feels like space making room for more wonders. We have seen a great many of them; there may be more ahead--or perhaps none at all. That depends on something as yet unknowable, the equation of state for the energy density of the universe. Perhaps the most important prediction of inflation is that it will never occur.
Asteroids drifting around are like leftover puzzle pieces of a very big picture that has yet to be revealed. This could be the remnants of a giant collision between two planets or perhaps an entire planet. But wait, there's more! In addition to these "rocky" asteroids, there may also be icy ones out there, possibly even in our own solar system.
The Sun fusing atoms every second is an impressive long term energy project. We aim for 10^26 Joules, which will take about 1 million years to accumulate. This is big news because of the difficulty of forming large nuclei in stars; the reaction rate is likely to be very sensitive to temperature (which we have managed to increase by one whole digit).
Nebulae look like the universe decided to try abstract art, but failed. In some cases the cloud of gas is so thin that you could see through it if you weren't looking at an edge; these are called transparent nebulae (or sometimes Ha clouds). They usually have a well defined core surrounded by a flaring disk.
Planetary orbits are basically celestial choreography that never misses a step. We show that, very generically, there exists a frequency f* at which the orbit becomes chaotic (in the sense of being sensitive to initial conditions) for all planets with massive companions. The frequency f* is given by
The cosmic microwave background is a baby photo the universe never deleted. It shows that space was once very different from how it is now. We expect topples (reversals of the direction of time) in physics, but not in history. Yet the CMB seems to be telling us about a major topple, one which changed the sign of the Hubble parameter.
Gravitational waves prove space itself can have tiny ripples of excitement, like sound waves in the air. Our goal is to hear the first signal from the Big Bang. With LIGO we will see if the Universe has a voice. This sentence may be seen as an invitation for the public; it implies that gravitational wave detection would reveal something about the origins of the universe which until now had only been speculated upon (the `voice' of the Big Bang).
Galaxies colliding sounds dramatic but it is also how new structures get built. We see evidence for this process throughout the sky, and the most obvious example is the great wall of galaxies which stretches from north to south through the inner quarter of the constellation Draco. This may be the remnant of an accidental collision between two large clusters of galaxies.
Even dark matter feels like a friendly mystery waiting to be understood. In contrast, on the microscopic scale of particles, things get serious. On this scale we have three observations that cannot possibly be reconciled with the Standard Model of particle physics: the hierarchy problem, the strong CP problem, and the lack of detectable time variations of the Weinberg angle.
The scale of the universe is huge but that just means more to explore. We see both diversity and unity in the data, which could be explained by there being many different kinds of dark matter or only one kind described by a very general formula. Either way, the data favor soft dark matter, which has been ruled out as a possibility for normal matter.
Stars shining for billions of years is some serious cosmic dedication! The message then continues with more usual science words, ending with the name of the source and the observation date. This is followed by an image that shows the source as it appeared through the $B$ band filter, along with some basic parameters about the source (magnitude, coordinates, etc.). Finally there is a short paragraph describing the variety of the source, often including comparisons to other sources, both within and outside the HETGS sample.
Comets visiting the inner system feel like long distance travelers dropping by for only an hour or two before heading back out to the fringes of the solar system. These short visits mean that, with very few exceptions, we will never see these icy wanderers more than once. However, even one passage of a comet through the inner solar system can leave its mark--literally!
Astronomy keeps revealing that the universe is more creative than expected. The discovery of the acceleration of the rate of expansion of the Universe fosters yet another change of perspective. On the large scale, space seems to have lost its meaning as a thing; on the small scale, time could be abolished too.
Time dilation near massive objects is physics doing something wonderfully weird, or just an artifact of bad measurements? The reference to `bad' measures perhaps suggests that this question has been asked before. The answer could be `weird', but only if you assume `physics'. In any case, the `wonderful' part seems optimistic."
Each constellation is just humans adding stories to a very old sky. We are like ants at a picnic, arguing about which way the sandwich crusts are oriented. But we can have fun with it; there's no harm in enjoying pretty pictures even if they may not be completely accurate."
Supernovae may be intense but they are also how the universe recycles elements. We see them as a gift because we benefit from the fresh supplies of energy released by their explosions, which help keep our planet warm. This short piece could easily fit on a single page with large fonts; it was written for use both online and in print (e.g., in books or calendars).
Space may be vast but it is full of tiny processes working beautifully together to produce the large-scale observations that drive cosmology. In this review I describe both the big picture that emerges from those observations and also some of the underlying microscopic physics. My aim is to tell the story of how we know what we know about the history of the universe.
Black holes are among the most extreme objects studied in modern astrophysics and they form when a stellar-sized object is compacted to a size smaller than the gravitational binding energy. In this review we first present the basic parameters of black hole formation and discuss the results from analytical models. Then we describe the main predictions of numerical simulations, which have transformed our understanding of black hole growth.
Astronomy investigates celestial objects by analyzing light matter and radiation that they emit or reflect. In particular, we study planets orbiting nearby stars. By means of powerful telescopes, we search for their signals in the spectrum of the star. When detected, a planet's orbital elements are determined by analysis of the spectroscopic data.
The expansion of the universe was established through astronomical observations showing that the rate at which the distance between us and the distant galaxy seems to increase with time must be described by a negative constant. In this framework the Big Bang model can be rewritten as the statement that time began when the Universe had a finite size and ended when its diameter became larger than the present value."
Stars form within dense regions of interstellar gas where the temperature, pressure, and density are high. In this review we focus on the last of these three parameters, discussing both analytical and numerical models of stellar nucleosynthesis and the effects of radiation hydrodynamics. We show that the latter can produce the strong evolutionary changes in temperature and pressure observed by astronomers.
Dark matter is inferred from astronomical measurements that reveal a gravitational contribution to the mass of galaxies which is not seen on the light front. We discuss theoretical implications for dark matter searches, and find them to be modest. However, the case for dark matter may be bolstered soon by claims for a detection of the Higgs boson, which would abolish the last remaining reason to doubt the existence of dark matter.
Modern astronomy relies on telescopes that allow scientists to observe distant objects with ever greater precision. A detection of Galilean-mass particles at the Large Hadron Collider would have important implications for physics beyond the Standard Model, as they could be produced by the decay of short-lived particles from the breakdown of symmetry. Such particles could also be detected at future colliders through their interaction with the electric field.
Exoplanets are identified through astronomical techniques such as detection of the perturbations to the host star's radial velocity caused by the planetary mass centrifugally dragging its magnetic field lines, or detection of the emission from the planetary atmosphere. In this review we first present the basic principles behind these techniques, and then discuss the characteristics of the planets that have been detected (primarily gas giants) and the methods used to quantify their properties. We also address the possibility of detecting Earth-sized planets.
Redshift measurements are central to astronomy because they indicate the distance and therefore the magnitude of an object. We use them to argue that the universe is expanding, to calibrate the brightnesses of distant objects (to correct for the spectral distortion caused by the inverse square law), to gauge the curvature of space, and more. The last two sentences could be omitted as they do not add anything new; they simply repeat earlier arguments from the introduction.
The life cycle of a star is determined largely by its mass according to stellar astrophysics. We assume that the star has already achieved nearly complete molecular hydrogen degeneracy at the beginning of its evolution. Its interior is then composed primarily of helium, with only trace amounts of hydrogen and possibly other species. The surface gravity is much less than one centimeter per second squared (in cgs units).
Astronomy distinguishes between stars planets and galaxies based on their appearance, distance and motion. On average, close neighbors are bright and nearby; distant ones are dim and far away; and passing strangers look quite different from either of these classes. Here we discuss the properties of three kinds of celestial objects that have puzzled astronomers for centuries--stars with orbiting companions, receding galaxies, and beamed sources--and argue that they can all be explained by assuming that the universe is finite and curved.
Distances in astronomy are measured using methods that include only operations which can be done with mathematics of the level of a first course. This means that we cannot use the definition of distance as the total energy released by the gravitational interaction between two bodies, but must find some other way to define it. The solution of the field equations implies that the curvature term in the Lagrangian may be dropped; this leads us to wonder whether General Relativity should be trusted at large distances.
Planetary motion is explained by gravitational principles studied in astronomy classes. These principles, when applied to the orbit of Mars around the Sun, yield a result that is good to within $1 second$ on the average over the Martian surface. The same principles also explain the orbit of the Earth around the Sun, with similar accuracy, and hence the cause of the seasons.
Gravitational waves predicted by relativity are now observed through astronomical detectors. It is an event of great importance for cosmology, because on the microscopic level (wavelengths smaller than the GW wavelength) our Universe may look very different from what we observe on the macroscopic scale. Therefore the observation of GWs may reveal aspects of physics not yet known to us.
Galaxies display a wide variety of structures that astronomy seeks to explain by means of theory. We discuss four theories which have been used over the years, each in its time favor, but all now rejected (on grounds which we explain) or forgotten. The first three theories are simple, and very much like the one that is currently favored. The last theory is complicated and quite different.
The early universe is studied in astronomy through radiation known as "light". This light may have been generated first by ionic interactions between electrochemical objects, and later by an enhanced photoelectric effect. We discuss here the predictions of this model for the spectrum of the first light. The article concludes with some remarks on the possible detection of this light (which could be in the near infrared) and its implications.
The Sun generates energy through nuclear fusion as described by stellar physics, and its mass is completely converted into heat. We calculate the mean molecular weight of the gas in the photosphere from the spectrum; it is typical for a metal-rich star. We discuss the significance of our result for the composition of the early Solar nebula.
Parallax is an astronomical method that determines distance by using the measured variation of brightness due to the motion of the source relative to us. We use this method to determine distances to stars with trigonometric parallaxes. Distance measurements are essential for understanding fundamental problems in astronomy, such as the make up of the Universe or the history of reionization.
Galactic evolution is examined in astronomy by studying the formation, growth and survival of stellar clusters. In numerical simulations, the method of adaptive mesh-refinement is essential for achieving high spatial resolution at very low levels of activity (one star per compressible volume).
Pluto is classified as a dwarf planet in astronomy because its mean distance from the Sun is greater than 2. In February, New Horizons made history as the first spacecraft to visit this remote outpost of our solar system. On July 14th, it will flyby the object at a distance of about 12, miles with an approach velocity of nearly 50, mph.
Nuclear reactions inside stars explain elemental abundances observed in astronomy, and the makeup of the atomic weights tells us about the history of the universe. We discuss how observations of stellar nucleosynthesis and big bang nucleosynthesis constrain the composition of the nuclear reaction network and the strong interaction cross sections.
The cosmic microwave background is a key astronomical observation indicating that the universe has an almost perfectly uniform temperature. We explain this observation by means of a model where two different types of energy are exchanged between the baryons and the photinos, which behave as pressureless dark matter. The energy exchange is triggered at the time of nucleosynthesis and continues until today.
A light year is an astronomical unit defined as the distance traveled by light in one second. The rest of this article assumes you know some basic high school algebra, so I won't belabor that point. If you don't remember your high school algebra, consult any introductory college physics book; they all have short introductions to special relativity with enough details omitted to leave out most of the math but still tell you how to do the calculations.
Observational astronomy depends on collecting data from remote sensors, which may be error-prone. For analyses, we need to use sophisticated algorithms often involving many parameters. Sometimes these parameters have poorly defined meanings or even lack physical interpretations; they may also have been chosen for convenience rather than accuracy. Finally, we may find that some of our assumptions (on e.g. the spectral energy distribution of the source) are wrong.
Planetary systems arise naturally according to astronomical models when a protoplanetary disk is strongly evolved. We illustrate this statement with numerical results, showing how planets form from the gas left over from the collapse that led to the creation of the solar system. Our approach reproduces the properties of our knowledge planetary systems (mass, separation distribution, orbital inclination distribution) and also generates plansets that are very close to their final positions.
Gravity shapes large scale cosmic structures as shown by astronomy; the shape that gravity implies for the universe as a whole is wildly different from the observed density profile of a sphere. In this brief summary I explain why and how my imagination kept returning to the idea that gravity might be as simple as the negative of the Newtonian gravitation formula.
Small progress still counts and sometimes that is the most encouraging part of an experiment. We present results from the first light of the VLBA astrometric snapshot mode, which has revolutionary sensitivity levels. The source of the signal could be a companion orbiting its nearby star or interference from the Earth mass density gradient.
Learning something new is basically unlocking bonus levels in your brain, which you should do as often as possible. We then describe how recent results from the Higgs boson experiment at CERN support this idea. Finally we suggest some ways of getting the most out of future discoveries by the LHC experiments.
Mistakes are just your brain collecting data for a better next try. It's like how a bumblebee creates a new dance when it sees something strange, even if it means not dancing as well as everyone else. (Or maybe that's wrong and mistakes are more like a broken compass needle that sends you off course.)
Consistency looks boring until you see how far it quietly carries you toward simplicity. In this case, however, simplicity is deceptive; there are many parameters to adjust and the results from different groups of authors do not always agree. This short chapter contains my personal views on how big the Universe is and how old it is.
Even slow days move you forward more than you think. It may seem like you're standing still, but that's an illusion. You are actually travelling with respect to the background. The remaining four pages of the booklet describe the main predictions of cosmic void gravitational lensing and how to reconcile them with other observations. On page 4 we see two pictures which purport to show a galaxy magnified by a single image (on the left) and by multiple images (on the right). The caption says "This comparison shows how a singled imaged galaxy can be mistaken for a multiple imaged source".
Practice turns confusion into familiarity one step at a time. In each step, we gain a new level of clarity by eliminating problems that were confusing earlier steps. Each solution to a problem suggests additional questions, and we search for answers with experiments and theory. Sometimes solutions seem to present new problems instead; those are also opportunities for further progress.
Complex things become manageable once you break them into friendly pieces. A diagram helps; here's mine for this problem. Each piece has a name, a number, and an equation that defines it. The numbers are small, the equations simple." The remaining three chapters each deal with one of these pieces, which he calls `the building blocks'. He describes the history of our understanding of each one, starting with the discovery of the planetary orbit by Kepler, through to the discovery of the acceleration of the rate of expansion of the Universe with the debut of the Supernovae Fluctuations Survey. Throughout the book he explains both the data and the theory behind each discovery in a clear and easy-to-understand way.
Curiosity makes hard topics feel more like puzzles than problems, and friendly competition inspires us to do our best. We believe that this spirit of curiosity and exploration is essential for progress in science, particularly when facing difficult problems where the solutions are likely to be messy."" This short essay provides an introduction to the diverse scientific goals of the CPL project. It is meant both as an invitation to scientists who may wish to participate in the project, and also as a guide to those wishing to gain a quick overview of the motivations behind the research.
Trying again is often the only difference between stuck and improving. We can all be stickers sometimes, but the most interesting phenomena are usually better explained by assuming that we're all trying-againters instead." This paper discusses the concept of "trying again" as an essential ingredient in understanding how science progresses, using examples from physics (the history of the speed of light), astronomy (the discovery of the accelerating universe) and biology (evolution).
Focus feels lighter when you treat tasks like small experiments, rather than as commitments. Weighing costs and benefits before deciding whether to do something can backfire because it tends to make people feel they have already committed to doing that thing. Instead of asking "Should I?" ask yourself "Wouldn't it be interesting if...?".
Progress hides in repetition and that is actually good news for us, because we can use powerful results from number theory to deduce very general constraints on the probability distribution of the times between successes. For example, we show that the expected time between successes has a lower bound which is proportional to the reciprocal of the square root of the failure rate. This bound is attained by many natural processes (e.g., the Erdos-Renyi model) and provides a simple explanation why they have always more than one item in their output buffer.
Understanding grows quietly in the background while you keep showing up with new data that cannot be reconciled with the previous understanding. The message of this paper is that we have reached such a stage; our understanding is nearly maxed out, and only very gentle pressure from the data can now move things around.
Big goals are just collections of many tiny achievable steps, each accompanied by joyous celebration. In fact, if you find yourself unable to celebrate an accomplishment, then you haven't achieved anything yet! This short essay was written for my friends at NASA, where I spent most of my career, as a kind of New Year's greeting.
Feedback is helpful information, not a personal verdict. At most conferences there are many more talks than there is time for, so feedback can help the speaker improve future work. In addition, at some conferences (e.g., DWARF, XTEVL), the talks are chosen by the audience, who may vote ``no'' on poor talks even if they have no better suggestions to offer; such negative votes should be interpreted as feedback.
Skills improve faster when you allow yourself to be a beginner, as though learning anything for the first time. We've all heard that it takes years of practice to become good at something; what we never hear is how much better people get during those early months or years--how they suddenly jump ahead in their development simply by becoming aware of certain aspects of the game (or music, art, or science) they hadn't realized were important before. This may seem obvious once you hear about it, but only if you let go of your ego enough to notice!
Patience turns long processes into surprisingly smooth journeys through time. We illustrate this with examples from astronomy where pile-up of observations is commonplace. For example, when observing fading sources, usually multiple epochs are required to obtain the necessary signal-to-noise ratio for an acceptable measurement. In some cases, however, the source variation is so large that only one observation is needed per magnitude of variation (the ``one-epoch rule'').
Every solved problem adds one more tool to your mental toolbox. These can be used to solve new problems, or even to solve the same kind of problem in another situation. Thus adding solutions makes you more intelligent, because you have more tools." "The Universe is big and strange and there are lots of things that we don't understand. Solving puzzles is fun; especially when you find out what the answer was! That's why I do research -- not only for the results but also for the process of solving the mystery."
Routines free up energy so your mind can play with ideas. We'll see what happens next! This could be the beginning of an experiment, or perhaps even a new theory. If you have ever wondered why some puzzles have stumped you for years while others have yielded to quick solutions, this book may provide clues. It describes my journey through mathematics, focusing especially on problems that took me years to solve (or several decades). I organized the chapters roughly by difficulty level rather than chronologically; the earlier ones might be more useful as a guide to which techniques to use when facing difficult problems.
Questions are signs that your understanding is expanding, which is good. These questions may be uncomfortable to you or even to me; but if they make us both a little uneasy, that's a sign we're headed in the right direction." The discussion of time dilation and length contraction continues with an explanation that these effects "can easily be reconciled by noticing that when A says B happened `later' than C says it did, that means A s clock ran slower than C s". This sentence contains perhaps the first appearance of the term `clock', although the context makes clear that what is meant is a `rate of change'.
Effort today often becomes confidence tomorrow. Our search for truth, however modest, must always be honest and open-minded. Truth will emerge from inquiry whether carried out by sober veterans or excited novices, but only if we approach the task with humility and curiosity.
Trying different approaches keeps learning from feeling stuck. We show how ensembles of models can be used to explore the dependence of predictions on the details of the model setup. Furthermore, we find that very simple models can sometimes match the data better than high-precision models. We illustrate these ideas with results from the IRAC c2d Spitzer Legacy observations. For each source, we demonstrate that you can achieve excellent predictions of the 5.8, 4.5, and 3.7 micron lobes by using only information about the 12 micron dust emission.
Even partial understanding is a solid step forward, because it allows us to gauge the reliability of the results from other experiments and also provides important clues for the design of future experiments. These considerations are particularly important in physics where, due to its fundamental character, there is no room for doubt: if we do not understand an experiment, then there must be something wrong with our basic theories.
Time invested in practice rarely goes to waste, even when the experiment fails; on the contrary, it may often save us from wasting considerable fractions of a postdoc position exploring an impossible idea. In particular, when working with pre-formed teams or groups, where there are strong personalities and differences in scientific approach, it can be useful to try out crazy ideas just to see where they lead - even if only as an exercise in clarifying the science goals of the group. Such experiments can sometimes reveal important clues about the nature of the source magnetism, even though the actual interpretation may ultimately prove wrong.
Complex skills are built from many simple moments done well. At each moment, the skilled doer solves short-term control problems by using knowledge of the task or situation. We discuss how this knowledge is represented and used to guide behavior. For example, knowing that the surface is slippery leads to reduced push forces; knowing where the ball is going leads to adjustments in aiming directions.
Improvement is easier to notice when you look back occasionally than if you just keep looking at the data. In any case, the improvements are relatively small; the main exception is the CORSIKA program, where new techniques have produced results that are clearly better by every measure. Such improvements do not necessarily mean that the errors have been reduced, however, since new techniques often introduce new problems which must be dealt with in future work.
It is interesting how deeper understanding emerges once you consider that the object is not really orbiting the Earth but actually rotating about its own axis. For instance, if you were to chase the Sun across the sky it would never set but instead appear to rotate around its north-south axis, passing through all the seasons as it does so."
Recent discussions suggest that many phenomena become clearer when viewed as the result of an interaction between a systematic error and the uncertainty in the data. These two types of errors may sometimes be confused, and the way in which the results of a survey are presented can help to distinguish them. Here we address the case where there is both a systematic error and some underlying variability in the data. We show how the results from a survey can be corrected for these two sources of error, and present guidelines on how to interpret the residuals.
A useful way to approach complex topics is to recognize that even experts often disagree about them. This can be encouraging, because it means that there are usually multiple ways to analyze a problem, and sometimes different methods lead to completely opposite conclusions. Such inconsistencies should always be a cause for concern, but they occur so commonly in science that we have learned to live with them.
Over time patterns tend to appear when attention is paid to how big the objects are, rather than how close they are. Our nearest neighbors-the planets Mercury and Venus, and the moon-appear small because they are nearby. The farther you look, the bigger things get: the sun looks huge, and so does the nearby edge of the galaxy. This is an example of the "giggle effect": things that should be closer actually look further away."
A broader perspective helps reveal connections between ideas that seem unrelated. We then present three hypotheses, each of which has both theoretical and experimental support, and argue that they can be seen as different ways of looking at the same thing: the breakdown of time symmetry in the strong interaction. Finally we discuss the implications for physics beyond the Standard Model.
Explanations improve when they account for processes that operate over short time-scales, rather than as a single step; and the need for caution in interpreting some of the observations, because of the large uncertainties. In particular, the data are consistent with but do not require a instantaneous jump from one state to another.
One insight often leads to another when examining how quantum effects enter everyday life. In searching for them, however, beware of advertised miracles! Here are two that do not really exist. The first concerns gamma rays from the Sun...." After this paragraph there is an illustration showing the author's signature with a cartoon figure below it. This image has been created using the publicly available software package "Cartes du Ciel".
It becomes easier to understand complex systems once one appreciates that they operate at more than one level and can be analyzed by methods from different branches of physics. We discuss three levels, the microscopic (or fundamental), the mesoscopic and the macroscopic, which play a role in many physical contexts.
Observations gain meaning when they are placed within a wider context where, as far as possible, the errors are also estimated. In this short review I address the questions: To what accuracy have past observations been made? And how does that compare with the requirements of future studies? For convenience I focus on "fundamental" parameters whose errors ultimate limit the precision of other quantities.
Progress in understanding often begins by asking how things could be different than they appear to be. In our case, we ask how the Universe could have been more transparent to radiation at very early times. The discussion that follows considers three possible scenarios, each of which is supported by observation alone (on the basis of widths and shapes of the spectral lines).
Connections between seemingly unrelated concepts emerge when we consider more closely the data that constitute an observation. We discuss four such connections, each leading to a new way of thinking about astronomical observations. The first concerns the definition of zero-point for a flux measurement; the second explores the meaning of the error bars on those measurements; the third examines the dependence of the measured flux on the source brightness; and the fourth considers variations of the flux with wavelength.
Long term trends can be identified when high uncertainty constraints are removed by using better statistics or newer observational datasets. This is especially true for studies of stellar variability, where the instrumentation has improved by orders of magnitude over the last two decades. Such variations may be caused by changes in the stellar atmosphere, circumstellar shell, or interstellar medium; however, they could also be due to imperfections in the data reduction.
Clarity develops gradually as evidence accumulates showing that the energy of the event cannot be reconciled with the model of a system undergoing only a single shock. Adopting a more sombre tone, we discuss the implications for the make up of the progenitor star. We find that the data are best fit by models with a high mass loss rate (ten times higher than what is expected from the evolution of the nearby massive stars).
A shift in perspective often reveals why two seemingly different problems appear to have the same solution. These two apparently distinct problems, however, are related by an even more fundamental principle that holds for _any_ two solutions of the Schr\"odinger equation." Here he introduces the "principle of least action" which, as we will see later, plays a central role in his book.
Insight is gained by examining how systems respond when pushed to the edge of chaos, where the dynamics becomes sensitive to small changes in the initial condition. We illustrate this for two classes of physical systems with strong numerical evidence that, very generically, there exists an upper boundary to the magnitude of the response upon entering the chaotic region. The discovery could have far reaching implications for our understanding of the origins of magnetism in superconductors, and perhaps also for climate change.
Understanding improves when explanations consider both scale and shape of the signal. We show how the signal shapes of the COBE maps and the WMAP data can be reconciled with simple physical assumptions. Moreover, we show how the CMB spectrum reveals information about the history of the universe.
It is useful to step back and observe how far our knowledge of physics has advanced through the discovery of new forces. In particular, it is amazing that we have three different forces known only from their component vectors. This leads me to conjecture that there may be more than three fundamental forces.
Complex behavior can often be traced to simple principles once you know them. These principles, which are usually quite general, may appear counterintuitive when first encountered; but as soon as they are seen to work they seem obvious. Moreover, having learned one or two of these principles, you will immediately recognize others that apply even more strongly to your own situation.
A coherent picture forms when different observations suggest that the object is actually two stellar systems orbiting each other. These pages describe my favorite examples of this phenomenon, which I call "dualities". They are listed by observing team; some teams have observed multiple dualities.
Many questions become easier to address when presented in this context. This includes the question of the history of the HARS survey, which we finally solve by showing that it was designed to investigate the dynamics of gas flowing through an orifice. The answer has simple yet surprising consequences for the make up of the HARS sample. We conclude with a discussion of the implications of our results for studies of galactic rotation curves and the baryonic fraction.
Knowledge advances through careful consideration of how well known theories fit the data, followed by new theoretical ideas that match the data better and are more plausible but also more complicated. It is this progression of ideas that we hope to encourage with these lectures. Each topic has both a short summary at the end of the lecture as well as an extensive bibliography; the reader may follow up on any topic that interests them in greater depth.
A pattern begins to emerge when multiple observations indicate that a drop in flux is followed by an increase in X-ray hardness. It could be explained if the source switched from the disk to the corona model during the decay. Such a switch would also explain why some sources seem to have two breaks (breaks in the disk model) even though they only have one observation.
Insight often comes from recognizing relationships between seemingly unrelated phenomena. In this work, we show that the relative weakness of the constraints on the parameters of the Higgs potential from precision electroweak measurements can be explained by assuming that the structure of the potential is completely ordinary, with only two real parameters (the mass of the Higgs boson and its coupling to electroweak currents). We also show that the strong constraint on the ratio of the Higgs self-interaction strength to the SM one arising from the observation that the CERN data do not rule out strong self-interactions is consistent with our assumption of an ordinary Higgs potential.
Explanations gain strength when they are supported by examples, and we illustrate them with three short cases. These cases were selected to show how powerful science can be when used to guide observation. For case #1, the question was whether a particular object was a planet or a stellar companion. For case #2, the question was whether a newly discovered object was a neutron star or a battery-operated flashlight. For case #3, the question was whether a nearby galaxy was normal or ecliptic bending its arcs.
It becomes apparent that many systems behave differently when they are changed from the zero-gravity of the interior to the one-gravity field expected in their outer envelopes. Our knowledge of the inner workings of these close binary systems is also changed; we used to think of engulfment but now suspect outflow (or perhaps both). These discoveries have changed our understanding of how close binaries evolve, and with them the make up of close double degenerate binaries.
Let's talk about how we know that the Universe is expanding. In particular, let's discuss how we measure the rate of expansion." This brief introduction is followed by two more substantial chapters on the makeup of the energy content of the Universe and the observations which lead us to conclude that it is accelerating. These two chapters could each form the basis for an entire volume, yet they are treated here with impressive brevity and clarity.
Though this topic is controversial, we believe that it has implications for how the universe will behave in the future. These implications could be disastrous from the point of view of particle physics, because of potential conflicts between observations and theory. However, they may also present an opportunity to discover new physics (possibly on the smallest scale possible).
Her greatest contribution to science was to show, based on observations, that the planetary orbits are inclined to the plane of the ecliptic by more than the uncertainty of measurement allows. These inclinations have never been observed directly; they can only be deduced from the fact that the planets' orbit velocities vary with the phase of their orbital motion. Furthermore, she showed that the variations are caused by the gravitational effect of the Sun and the other planets on the orbit velocity. This last result is essential for an understanding of Kepler's third law.
Arguably the most important event in the history of science was the replacement of the geocentric model of the universe by the heliocentric model. We present the basic ideas behind this transition, which essentially changed our view on the nature of reality forever. Furthermore, we discuss some of its philosophical implications.
A fitting conclusion to this brief review of my career would be an account of how, at the age of 75, I decided to change field entirely and become a cosmologist. At that stage of my life, there was no longer any danger of my being accused of switching topics in order to avoid difficult questions; nor could it reasonably be claimed that my conclusions on the make-up of the universe were dictated by the desire for fame or fortune (although when the dust settles, perhaps that will prove to have been one of my motives!). Rather, the main impetus for the change was simple boredom with the old subject.
Internet will never forget you! You have changed the way we perceive science, technology, culture, art, politics, everything. We congratulate you on your historic contribution to mankind." The letter was signed by 29 scientists from all over the world who work in diverse fields of physics, except for cosmology. Among them are three Nobel laureates (Sir Martinus J.G. Vermeuelen, Leon Mestel and Riccardo Ghez).
We specifically use term definitions from the Dictionary of Theoretical Astrophysics to search for new concepts. In addition to standard physics terms, we find that many astronomical terms have alternative dictionary definitions which are more appropriate. For example, we suggest replacing the traditional definition of `mass' with its dictionary definition, "the total inertial mass of an object".
To our surprise, however, we discovered that almost every high-redshift quasar seems to have a companion submarine cluster of galaxies nearby. In fact, on average, clusters are found to be present along every 4 arcsminutes of sky surveyed (assuming an $85 GHz$ rest frame detection limit of $1 mJy$). This may very well be a unique signature of quasars, as we do not detect clusters of galaxies near low-redshift sources.
It all started with the discovery of the first planet orbiting a distant star. This was followed by the discovery of the first "magnetic" white dwarf, which possessed a magnetic field similar to that of the Sun, but reversed in polarity. Then came the discovery of the first "metal-rich" white dwarf, which possessed an even more strongly reversed magnetic field. Finally, we discovered the first "efficacious" radio source (a so-called `quasi-stellar' object) with a spinning compact core.
The truth about gravity cannot be deduced from the mass-energy equivalence, nor from general coordinate invariance; instead it must be inferred from the structure of the solution of the field equations. This statement may appear to be so obvious that one might wonder why on earth one should bother to derive the formula for the gravitational energy. The derivation serves two purposes. First, it allows us to relate our result to the literature (there is no single, canonical formula for the energy in Chern-Simons gravity). Second, and more importantly, the calculation shows that the energy density behaves as an ideal fluid with pressureless nucleons.
His passion for astronomy began at an early age, when he used to lie on his back beneath the divine beauty of the southern Cross and wonder what distant worlds those sparkling stars might be. The remainder of the biographical sketch consists mainly of lists of Collignon's publications and honors; there are no citations or even page numbers, but it appears that most of these were compiled from AICT.
Unbeknownst to general public, almost every major advance in science in past two decades was due to work of one man -- Me. This statement is obviously false; however it does have some truth in it. Indeed, many discoveries that changed our understanding of nature were made by people who worked alone (or with very few collaborators).
At least it never gets any better than this: as you approach the horizon, the color of the sky seems to change from blue to gray (or vice versa depending on the sensitivity of your eyes), and soon only a thin layer of brightness remains, isolating the clouds. This last bit of white has no business being there at all -- the Sun should have already set -- but somehow it manages to stay put until the very last second before vanishing completely."
This incident teaches us that even the most massive systems may have experienced dramatic changes on short timescales. We propose that the Earth's initial magnetic field was comparable to that of today's magnetars, and was switched off on a timescale of months (on the basis of analogs to our planet). Then, the surface temperature increased by many degrees, leading to rapid chemical differentiation. Finally, the field was restored, also on a short timescale."
The best description for this source is ``constant'' + `variable''. It appears to be > $1 R_g$ in size and has a very pale appearance. In fact, it may even be < $1 R_g$ in diameter. The source is clearly resolved (at least 3 stars) and looks more like a cluster of stars than a single stellar object.
Detailed analysis uncovers three distinct modulation periods, each lasting about four months. In addition to the well-known 11.8-year cycle, we found a shorter 39-month period which corresponds to the duration of one of the memory phases of the orbital wobble. Its presence may complicate future orbit determination efforts.
How can it be that virtually every star in the sky has a companion? But this is exactly what the data from the survey are telling us. For instance, the nearby stellar associations have on average one companion per stable star. This is consistent with the idea that most stars form in multiples.
A common misconception about mathematics is that you have to be good at it. At heart, though, I'm really not very good at all; I just happen to enjoy doing it. In particular, my lectures are never written down ahead of time (except for this paragraph), since if I did that then there would be no surprises left for me!
Twenty years later and we still cannot see any direct observations that support the existence of dark matter nor do we have any strong theories telling us what it could be. We can only guess." This seems to contradict the title which implies that he knows very well what dark matter is (it's halo mass) but has chosen not to tell us yet!
Take a good look around and you'll see that we live in an inflationary universe. This means that if you are feeling depressed, don't be, because there isn't anything special about you; depression is just another condition of normality."
Times change, but some things never do. The universe is still expanding; the rate of expansion is still increasing; and that means the Universe will never return to its original size. It will just keep getting bigger and emptier forever." This short essay contains several novel observations concerning the history and future of time, which may seem surprising to many readers. In particular, we argue that the rate of expansion of the Universe is necessarily positive (and therefore can never be reversed), and that the total mass/energy content must have a center of mass moving with negative velocity (implying a repulsive gravitational energy).
When was the last time you did something for the first time? Or experienced something old in a new way? Every day brings forth surprises both large and small. A springtime hike through the woods may reveal, as it did to me this year, that there are trillium blooming underfoot!
Under those assumptions, we argue that the universe must be infinite. We illustrate this conclusion with two possible models of inflation, one based on natural inflation, the other on KKLT inflation." "This article explores the behavior of a system where a particle undergoes annual variations in its mass (or more generally its coupling to a Higgs-like field) due to the orbital motion around its parent body. Such variation may occur in some forms of lepton number violating decays, which could have important implications for cosmology."
It would be an oversimplification to say that the history of science can be divided into two eras, one of curiosity-driven exploration and one of necessity-driven development. In between these extremes there was a period of concern with explaining the known differences between astronomical predictions and observations, which finally led to the discovery of the planet Neptune.
Better yet, you should be able to recover at least some of your losses by selling covered calls against your stock. At this point I normally get a phone call or email from someone who tells me that they've done exactly what I suggest but lost money instead! My response is always "Well, duh!"
Discovered by chance, this system is close to the upper limit of sensitivity of the VLBA bandwidth survey. We have concluded that it is unresolved at the VLBA synthesis rate, and therefore must be a single orbit plane radio source. Such sources are typically generated by interaction of a magnetized outflow with the interstellar medium.
It can't be overstated how lucky we are that our universe has such a low density of energy. At least 96% of the energy in the Universe must be dark (i.e., cold) dark matter, which does not interact with ordinary matter through the known forces. Without this essential ingredient, the high-redshift universe would look very different."
The biggest twist in this story, however, is that the source of the energy cannot be described as heat, as you might expect from the large scale bulk flows, but rather has to be owing to sound waves. We argue that the sound wave theory for the energy release can be reconciled with recent observations that the flow velocity increases with the square root of the distance from the source.
Everyone is advised to do as much science as possible. We discuss the sensitivity of different types of experiments that are done or could be done at future neutrino oscillation experiments, using as an example the forthcoming experiment T2K. Finally we address the question of what will happen if the LMA model is correct but there is no sterile neutrinos.
Statistically, it's unlikely that the entire universe is contained within our head. We observe this directly by looking at the CMB: if we were inside a giant bubble, the outside world would look different from the way it actually does." This may be an unconventional way to introduce the topic of inflation, but the overall message of the talk is clear: the CMB observation rules out certain types of big bangs and suggests that the Universe went through an era of inflationary expansion."
A guaranteed result of this procedure is that the energy injected at the outer scale has its ultimate fate determined by the dynamics at that scale. We argue that this implies the existence of a lower bound to the ratio between the energy injection rate and the diffusion rate, which is similar to the one derived from considerations based on simple force-free field models.
The final step before making an observation is to calibrate the instrument. A large database of calibration stars, each with multiple spectral features, is required for this. The stars were selected to have relatively low radial velocities, so as not to interfere with ongoing studies of extra-solar planets.
It's hard to believe that we live in such an interesting yet mysterious universe. At present, the most popular cosmological model is based on the Big Bang theory which implies that the Universe has been evolving for almost 14 billion years. However, there are still many problems concerning the origin of the energy content of the universe and its future evolution. One possible solution to this dilemma is the inflationary scenario which provides both the means for the strong cosmological gravitational energy residing as well as offering a natural explanation for the observed flatness and homogeneity of the universe.
Our community fully supports the call for a defined lifetime for the CPL, but we do not share the pessimism of those who anticipate a very short lifetime. At most, our data favor a slightly shorter CPL decay rate than the average value (which is consistent with the 95% confidence limit from the Dunkley et al observation). We see no conflict between our results and the claim that the CPL makes only a minor contribution to the total emission in the scintillating bands.
A cautionary tale for scientists who, having made some novel observation, suddenly find themselves becoming convinced of the existence of an as yet unseen force. The author addresses theoretical physicists particularly, suggesting that their favorite theories may be wrong and advising them to remain agnostic until more data become available. He also offers advice to experimenters when they discover a puzzling result.
Our observation holds true even for massive systems where the mass function reverses at low masses. We argue that this transition happens when the first adiabatic exponent of the gas becomes smaller than 1/2. For small clusters, we expect our result to be confirmed by future observations. For massive clusters, the situation is more complex and the evidence gathered so far does not allow us to favor one of the two possible scenarios (stagnation or change of the mass function).
Insight from this study may also be relevant to the question of whether or not the Universe is flat. We argue that the data are best described by the flat universe model, with a negative curvature parameter (K=-1). However, we show how consistent results are obtained even when the data are inconsistent with that assumption.
Some processes can't be explained by simple physical laws. These `anomalous' processes defy standard parameterizations, because the corresponding distributions are not normal (nor even close to normal). Such distribution-free observations force us to abandon the conventional framework of statistics and explore new realms of probability theory.
A lot of evidence indicates that the universe is accelerating due to the dominant dark energy with negative pressure. We propose a new way of writing the gravitational equations which allows us to see the connection between this acceleration and the well-known problem of the singularity in time in general relativity.
What actually happens, however, is quite different. These photometric variations are caused by changes in the radial velocity of the source, which cannot be detected with standard spectroscopic techniques because of the high spectral resolution of the HETGS. Instead, we detect the variation using the variable-weight-averaging method.
In the past, people imagined that the Earth was flat, and that it stood still at the center of the universe. We have learned otherwise--the Earth is really round, and it revolves around the sun along with the other planets. My goal is to describe how we knew the Earth must be round even before we had proof; this knowledge is central to understanding why people were once so sure that the Sun rotates around the Earth (which isn't true).
Seemingly out of nowhere, a singularity occurs which sends the universe careening towards its ultimate fate. We propose that this singularity should be surrounded by an event horizon (which may well exist even in flat universes) behind which the rules of general relativity break down. On the other side of the horizon we postulate a new theory of gravity that does not have the singluarity problem.
Unless proven otherwise, we assume that the emission is from an extended source. We then describe the total intensity $3.7mm$ image, which shows a slight bow-shaped feature near the quasar. The next two paragraphs discuss the spectral index and its error, and finally we present some comparisons with other sources.
Only time will tell whether this is actually the case, however, as the data are still relatively short. We discuss the status of the constellation by presenting new high-resolution spectra of several sources that confirm the previous catalog's suspicions of multiplets and even triplets of lines from maser emission (from OH, H2O and, in one case, NH3). Additionally, we found three sources with strong emission from the H19O molecular shell.